{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 **Title:** The Efficacy and Safety of Teprenonase for the Treatment of Early-Stage Alzheimer\'92s Disease: A Phase IIb, Randomized, Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Trial\
\
**Abstract**\
\
**Background:** The search for disease-modifying therapies for Alzheimer\'92s disease (AD) remains a critical priority. Teprenonase is a novel, orally administered small molecule designed to enhance mitochondrial function and stimulate lysosomal autophagy, two pathways implicated in AD pathogenesis. Preclinical models have demonstrated its ability to reduce amyloid-beta (A\uc0\u946 ) and phosphorylated tau (p-tau) burden and improve cognitive function.\
**Objective:** To evaluate the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of teprenonase in patients with early-stage AD over a 52-week period.\
**Methods:** This multicenter, Phase IIb trial enrolled 320 participants aged 55-85 with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) due to AD or mild AD dementia, confirmed by cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) A\uc0\u946 42/40 ratio and elevated p-tau. Participants were randomized 1:1 to receive 150 mg teprenonase twice daily or matched placebo. The primary efficacy endpoint was the change from baseline to Week 52 on the Integrated Alzheimer\'92s Disease Rating Scale (iADRS). Secondary endpoints included changes in the Clinical Dementia Rating Scale\'96Sum of Boxes (CDR-SB), AD Assessment Scale\'96Cognitive Subscale (ADAS-Cog13), and key biomarkers in CSF and plasma. Safety was assessed via adverse event monitoring, laboratory tests, and brain MRI.\
**Results:** 295 participants completed the study. At 52 weeks, the teprenonase group showed a statistically significant 2.8-point less decline on the iADRS compared to placebo (mean difference, 95% CI: 0.5 to 5.1, p=0.018). Significant benefits were also observed on the CDR-SB (p=0.025) and ADAS-Cog13 (p=0.032). Teprenonase treatment led to a significant reduction in CSF p-tau181 (-15.2% vs. -2.1% in placebo, p<0.001) and plasma neurofilament light chain (NfL) (-12% vs. +3%, p=0.004). CSF A\uc0\u946 42/40 ratio improved modestly but not significantly. The most common adverse events in the teprenonase group were mild, transient gastrointestinal disturbances. No differences were observed in amyloid-related imaging abnormalities (ARIA) or other serious adverse events.\
**Conclusion:** Teprenonase met its primary endpoint, demonstrating a statistically significant slowing of clinical decline in early AD. Its favorable impact on core AD biomarkers, particularly p-tau and NfL, supports a disease-modifying mechanism of action. The safety profile was acceptable. These results warrant further investigation in a larger, Phase III clinical trial.\
\
**1. Introduction**\
\
Alzheimer\'92s disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the extracellular accumulation of amyloid-beta (A\uc0\u946 ) plaques and intraneuronal neurofibrillary tangles composed of hyperphosphorylated tau protein. Current approved therapies, including anti-amyloid monoclonal antibodies, offer modest clinical benefits and are associated with significant safety concerns and practical limitations, highlighting the urgent need for alternative therapeutic strategies targeting different pathological pathways.\
\
Beyond amyloid and tau, mitochondrial dysfunction and impaired proteostasis, specifically autophagy-lysosomal pathway deficits, are recognized as central pillars of AD pathogenesis. Mitochondria in AD neurons exhibit reduced oxidative phosphorylation, increased reactive oxygen species production, and impaired dynamics. Concurrently, the autophagy-lysosomal system, responsible for clearing damaged organelles and protein aggregates, becomes dysfunctional, leading to the accumulation of toxic cellular debris. These processes create a vicious cycle of bioenergetic failure and proteotoxic stress, ultimately driving synaptic loss and neuronal death.\
\
Teprenonase (TPN-101) is a first-in-class, brain-penetrant, oral compound that dual-targets these pathways. It acts as a mitochondrial uncoupler at low concentrations, inducing a mild metabolic shift that enhances mitochondrial efficiency and biogenesis. Furthermore, it activates the transcription factor EB (TFEB), a master regulator of lysosomal biogenesis and autophagy, thereby promoting cellular clearance. In transgenic AD mouse models (APP/PS1 and 3xTg), teprenonase reduced hippocampal A\uc0\u946  and p-tau pathology, decreased neuroinflammation, restored synaptic plasticity markers, and reversed deficits in spatial and recognition memory.\
\
This Phase IIb trial was designed to translate these promising preclinical findings into human patients, evaluating whether teprenonase can slow clinical progression and favorably modify biomarker trajectories in individuals with early-stage AD.\
\
**2. Methods**\
\
**2.1 Study Design**\
This was a 52-week, multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group study conducted across 45 sites in North America and Europe. The study protocol was approved by the institutional review board or ethics committee at each site and conducted in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki and Good Clinical Practice guidelines. All participants provided written informed consent.\
\
**2.2 Participants**\
Key inclusion criteria were: age 55-85; diagnosis of MCI due to AD or mild AD dementia per National Institute on Aging\'96Alzheimer\'92s Association (NIA-AA) criteria; Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) score of 22-30; Clinical Dementia Rating (CDR) global score of 0.5 or 1.0; objective memory impairment on a standardized test; and biomarker confirmation of AD pathophysiology (CSF A\uc0\u946 42/40 ratio < 0.08 and CSF p-tau181 > 60 pg/mL) within 12 months of screening.\
Major exclusion criteria included: significant neurological disease other than AD; major psychiatric disorder; history of clinically significant cardiovascular disease; Modified Hachinski Ischemia Score >4; and contraindication to lumbar puncture or MRI.\
\
**2.3 Randomization and Intervention**\
Participants were randomized 1:1 via an interactive web response system to receive either 150 mg of teprenonase or an identical placebo capsule, administered orally twice daily. Randomization was stratified by site, baseline diagnosis (MCI vs. mild dementia), and baseline CDR-SB score. Participants, investigators, site staff, and the sponsor\'92s clinical team remained blinded to treatment assignment for the study duration.\
\
**2.4 Outcome Measures**\
*Primary Endpoint:* Change from baseline to Week 52 in the Integrated Alzheimer\'92s Disease Rating Scale (iADRS), a composite tool combining the ADAS-Cog and the AD Cooperative Study\'96Activities of Daily Living (ADCS-ADL) scale, providing a sensitive measure of global clinical function.\
\
*Secondary Clinical Endpoints:*\
*   Change in CDR-SB.\
*   Change in ADAS-Cog13.\
*   Change in ADCS-ADL MCI version.\
\
*Exploratory Biomarker Endpoints (subset of ~160 participants at designated biomarker sites):*\
*   *CSF Biomarkers:* Change in concentrations of A\uc0\u946 42, A\u946 40, p-tau181, total tau (t-tau), and neurogranin (synaptic integrity).\
*   *Plasma Biomarkers:* Change in concentrations of p-tau181, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), and neurofilament light chain (NfL).\
*   *Neuroimaging:* Volumetric MRI analysis of hippocampal atrophy rate at Week 52.\
\
**2.5 Safety Assessments**\
Safety was evaluated through the collection of adverse events (AEs), clinical laboratory tests (hematology, chemistry, urinalysis), vital signs, electrocardiograms (ECGs), and physical/neurological examinations. Brain MRIs were performed at screening, Week 24, and Week 52 to monitor for amyloid-related imaging abnormalities (ARIA-E for edema/effusion and ARIA-H for microhemorrhages and hemosiderosis).\
\
**2.6 Statistical Analysis**\
A sample size of 320 participants (160 per group) was calculated to provide 90% power to detect a 2.5-point difference in iADRS score change (assuming a standard deviation of 6.0 points) at a two-sided alpha level of 0.05, accounting for a 15% dropout rate.\
Efficacy analyses were performed on the Full Analysis Set (all randomized participants who received at least one dose of study drug, analyzed according to randomized group) using a mixed-model repeated measures (MMRM) approach, with treatment, visit, baseline score, diagnosis, and their interactions as fixed effects, and participant as a random effect. The primary analysis tested the between-group difference in least-squares mean change from baseline at Week 52. No adjustment for multiplicity was applied to secondary endpoints; they are interpreted as supportive. Biomarker analyses used similar MMRM or ANCOVA models on log-transformed data. Safety was analyzed in the Safety Set (all who received at least one dose).\
\
**3. Results**\
\
**3.1 Participants**\
Between [Month, Year] and [Month, Year], 320 participants were randomized. The Safety Set included 318 participants (159 teprenonase, 159 placebo), and the Full Analysis Set included 315 participants. 25 participants discontinued (14 teprenonase, 11 placebo), resulting in 295 completers (92.2%). Baseline demographic and clinical characteristics were well-balanced between groups (see Table 1).\
\
**Table 1: Baseline Characteristics (Full Analysis Set)**\
| Characteristic | Teprenonase (n=158) | Placebo (n=157) | p-value |\
|---|---|---|---|\
| Age, years (mean \'b1 SD) | 70.2 \'b1 6.5 | 71.1 \'b1 7.0 | 0.25 |\
| Female, n (%) | 84 (53.2) | 79 (50.3) | 0.62 |\
| Diagnosis: MCI due to AD, n (%) | 102 (64.6) | 98 (62.4) | 0.72 |\
| Diagnosis: Mild AD Dementia, n (%) | 56 (35.4) | 59 (37.6) | 0.72 |\
| MMSE (mean \'b1 SD) | 26.1 \'b1 2.2 | 25.8 \'b1 2.4 | 0.18 |\
| iADRS (mean \'b1 SD) | 78.5 \'b1 8.3 | 77.2 \'b1 9.1 | 0.22 |\
| CDR-SB (mean \'b1 SD) | 2.8 \'b1 1.1 | 2.9 \'b1 1.2 | 0.41 |\
\
**3.2 Efficacy Outcomes**\
\
*Primary Endpoint:* The least-squares mean change from baseline to Week 52 on the iADRS was -5.2 points (95% CI: -6.8 to -3.6) in the teprenonase group versus -8.0 points (95% CI: -9.6 to -6.4) in the placebo group. The between-group difference was 2.8 points (95% CI: 0.5 to 5.1, p=0.018), favoring teprenonase.\
\
*Secondary Clinical Endpoints:*\
*   **CDR-SB:** The teprenonase group declined by 1.4 points versus 2.1 points for placebo (difference 0.7 points, 95% CI: 0.1 to 1.3, p=0.025).\
*   **ADAS-Cog13:** The teprenonase group declined by 3.1 points versus 4.6 points for placebo (difference 1.5 points, 95% CI: 0.1 to 2.9, p=0.032).\
*   **ADCS-ADL:** A trend toward benefit was observed but did not reach statistical significance (difference 2.1 points, p=0.051).\
\
**3.3 Biomarker Outcomes**\
In the biomarker sub-study (n=155), teprenonase demonstrated significant effects on key pathogenic and neurodegenerative markers (see Table 2).\
\
**Table 2: Key Biomarker Changes at Week 52 (Exploratory Set)**\
| Biomarker | Teprenonase (% Change) | Placebo (% Change) | Between-Group p-value |\
|---|---|---|---|\
| **CSF p-tau181** | -15.2% | -2.1% | **<0.001** |\
| **Plasma p-tau181** | -10.5% | +1.3% | **0.002** |\
| **Plasma NfL** | -12.0% | +3.0% | **0.004** |\
| CSF A\uc0\u946 42/40 Ratio | +8.5% | +1.8% | 0.11 |\
| Plasma GFAP | -5.2% | +4.1% | 0.06 |\
| CSF Neurogranin | -7.1% | +5.0% | **0.042** |\
| Hippocampal Volume Loss | -1.8% | -2.6% | 0.09 |\
\
The reduction in CSF and plasma p-tau181 and the decrease in plasma NfL (a marker of axonal injury) were robust and statistically significant. The reduction in CSF neurogranin suggests a potential stabilizing effect on synaptic integrity. There was a non-significant trend toward reduced hippocampal atrophy.\
\
**3.4 Safety and Tolerability**\
The incidence of any AE was similar between groups (teprenonase 78.6%, placebo 75.5%). AEs leading to discontinuation occurred in 4.4% of the teprenonase group and 3.1% of the placebo group. The most common AEs in the teprenonase group were mild and transient: nausea (12.6% vs. 5.0% placebo), diarrhea (9.4% vs. 4.4%), and headache (8.2% vs. 9.4%). No cases of symptomatic ARIA-E or ARIA-H were reported, and the incidence of asymptomatic ARIA findings on MRI was low and balanced between groups. There were no clinically significant differences in laboratory parameters, vital signs, or ECGs.\
\
**4. Discussion**\
\
This Phase IIb trial provides evidence that teprenonase, a novel oral therapy targeting mitochondrial and lysosomal function, can slow clinical decline in individuals with early-stage, biomarker-confirmed Alzheimer\'92s disease. The 2.8-point advantage on the iADRS represents a 35% slowing of decline compared to placebo, a clinically meaningful effect size comparable to or exceeding those observed in recent Phase III trials of anti-amyloid antibodies, albeit in a shorter trial duration. The concordant positive signals on the CDR-SB and ADAS-Cog13 strengthen the evidence for a global cognitive and functional benefit.\
\
The biomarker data offer compelling mechanistic support. The pronounced reduction in p-tau181 in both CSF and plasma is a standout finding. Tau phosphorylation is highly sensitive to cellular stress, including bioenergetic deficits and proteotoxic burden. By improving mitochondrial health and enhancing autophagy, teprenonase may ameliorate the underlying drivers of tau pathology, moving beyond mere amyloid clearance. The significant decrease in plasma NfL, a sensitive marker of neuroaxonal injury, further suggests that the therapy may confer neuroprotective effects, potentially slowing the neurodegenerative process itself. The trend toward preserved hippocampal volume aligns with this interpretation. The synaptic biomarker signal (neurogranin) is also encouraging, hinting at possible synaptic stabilization. The lack of a strong A\uc0\u946  signal was anticipated, as teprenonase\'92s primary mechanism is not direct amyloid aggregation inhibition or removal, though the trend toward improved CSF A\u946 42/40 ratio may reflect enhanced clearance of intracellular A\u946  species via autophagy.\
\
The safety and tolerability profile of teprenonase was favorable, characterized primarily by mild gastrointestinal events that typically resolved within the first month. The absence of ARIA is a significant differentiator from amyloid-targeting immunotherapies and underscores its distinct mechanism. This oral, non-ARIA-inducing profile could greatly improve accessibility and treatment management for a broader AD population.\
\
**Limitations:** This study has several limitations. The 52-week duration, while informative for a Phase II trial, is insufficient to determine long-term clinical durability. The exploratory biomarker analyses, while pre-planned, were performed on a subset and require confirmation. The study population, though well-characterized, was predominantly Caucasian, limiting generalizability.\
\
**5. Conclusion**\
\
Teprenonase demonstrated a statistically significant and clinically meaningful slowing of disease progression in early Alzheimer\'92s disease over 52 weeks, accompanied by a robust biomarker signature indicating a disease-modifying effect on tau pathophysiology and neuroaxonal degeneration. Its oral administration and favorable safety profile address key unmet needs in the AD treatment landscape. These promising results strongly support the advancement of teprenonase into a pivotal Phase III clinical development program to confirm its efficacy and safety over a longer period and in a more diverse population.\
\
**References** (Representative examples; not an exhaustive list)\
1.   Cummings, J., et al. (2021). Alzheimer's disease drug development pipeline. *Trends in Pharmacological Sciences*.\
2.   Swerdlow, R.H., et al. (2017). The Alzheimer's disease mitochondrial cascade hypothesis: A current overview. *Journal of Alzheimer's Disease*.\
3.   Nixon, R.A. (2013). The role of autophagy in neurodegenerative disease. *Nature Medicine*.\
4.   Hyman, B.T., et al. (2012). National Institute on Aging\'96Alzheimer's Association guidelines for the neuropathologic assessment of Alzheimer's disease. *Alzheimer's & Dementia*.\
5.   Wessels, A.M., et al. (2020). Integrated Alzheimer's Disease Rating Scale (iADRS): A composite measure of cognition and function for clinical trials. *Journal of Prevention of Alzheimer's Disease*.\
\
**Acknowledgments & Disclosures** (Standard sections omitted for brevity but would include funding source, conflict of interest declarations for all authors, and acknowledgments to participants and study staff).}