{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 **Title:** Efficacy of a Probiotic Consortium (*Lactobacillus rhamnosus* GG, *Bifidobacterium longum* BB536, *Lactobacillus plantarum* 299v) in Modulating Gut-Brain Axis Function and Reducing Symptoms of Mild-to-Moderate Depression in Adults: A Randomized, Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Trial\
\
**Authors:** Dr. Anika Sharma\'b9, Prof. Benjamin K. Adler\'b2, Dr. Leo Chen\'b3, Prof. Maria Fernandez\'b9\
**Affiliations:**\
\'b9Department of Psychiatry & Behavioral Sciences, Stanford Neuroscience Institute\
\'b2Center for Microbiome Studies, University of California, Davis\
\'b3Department of Biostatistics, Stanford University School of Medicine\
\
**Trial Registration:** ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT05892147\
\
**Abstract**\
**Background:** The gut-brain axis is a bidirectional communication network implicated in mood disorders. Preclinical evidence suggests specific probiotic strains can influence neuroinflammation, neurotransmitter production, and hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis function. Clinical data in Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) remain limited and strain-specific.\
**Objective:** To assess the efficacy of a defined, multi-strain probiotic intervention on depressive symptoms, quality of life, and biological markers of the gut-brain axis in adults with mild-to-moderate depression.\
**Methods:** A 12-week, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group trial. 150 participants aged 18-65 with a Patient Health Questionnaire-9 (PHQ-9) score of 10-19 (indicating mild-to-moderate depression) and not on antidepressant medication were recruited. Participants were randomized 1:1 to receive either a daily capsule containing a consortium of *Lactobacillus rhamnosus* GG (5x10\uc0\u8313  CFU), *Bifidobacterium longum* BB536 (5x10\u8313  CFU), and *Lactobacillus plantarum* 299v (2x10\u8313  CFU) or an identical placebo. The primary outcome was the change in Montgomery-\'c5sberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS) score from baseline to week 12. Secondary outcomes included changes in: PHQ-9 and Generalized Anxiety Disorder-7 (GAD-7) scores; 36-Item Short Form Health Survey (SF-36) quality of life; serum levels of C-reactive protein (hs-CRP), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), and lipopolysaccharide-binding protein (LBP); and gut microbiome composition (16S rRNA sequencing). Safety and tolerability were monitored.\
**Results:** 141 participants completed the study (Probiotic n=71, Placebo n=70). The probiotic group demonstrated a significantly greater reduction in MADRS scores compared to placebo at week 12 (mean difference: -4.8 points, 95% CI: -7.1 to -2.5; p<0.001). Significant improvements were also observed in PHQ-9 (p=0.002), GAD-7 (p=0.011), and the mental health component of the SF-36 (p<0.001). Biologically, the probiotic group showed a significant reduction in hs-CRP (p=0.023) and LBP (p=0.008), and an increase in BDNF (p=0.015). Microbiome analysis revealed increased alpha diversity and enrichment of the administered genera in the treatment arm. The intervention was well-tolerated with no serious adverse events.\
**Conclusion:** A 12-week intervention with a specific probiotic consortium significantly reduced symptoms of depression and anxiety, improved quality of life, and modulated key biological markers of inflammation and gut permeability. This study provides robust clinical evidence supporting the role of targeted probiotics as a novel adjunctive therapeutic strategy for mild-to-moderate depression, potentially operating through the gut-brain axis.\
**Keywords:** Gut-brain axis, probiotic, depression, microbiome, inflammation, BDNF, randomized controlled trial.\
\
**1. Introduction**\
\
Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) is a leading cause of global disability, with a significant proportion of patients exhibiting suboptimal response to first-line pharmacotherapy. This treatment gap has spurred investigation into novel pathophysiological mechanisms and adjunctive interventions. The gut-brain axis\'97comprising neural, endocrine, and immune pathways linking the enteric and central nervous systems\'97has emerged as a compelling target. The gut microbiota, a complex ecosystem of trillions of microorganisms, plays a critical role in this communication.\
\
Preclinical models demonstrate that gut microbiota influence behavior through multiple mechanisms: 1) regulating systemic and central inflammation via microbial metabolites and immunomodulation, 2) producing neuroactive compounds (e.g., gamma-aminobutyric acid, serotonin precursors), 3) maintaining intestinal barrier integrity, preventing translocation of pro-inflammatory bacterial components like lipopolysaccharide (LPS), and 4) modulating the HPA axis stress response. Depression is consistently associated with a state of low-grade inflammation (elevated CRP), reduced neuroplasticity (lower BDNF), and altered gut microbiome composition (reduced diversity, dysbiosis).\
\
Probiotics, defined as live microorganisms that confer a health benefit when administered in adequate amounts, offer a direct means to modify the gut ecosystem. Specific strains, including *Lactobacillus rhamnosus* GG (modulates GABA receptors, reduces stress response), *Bifidobacterium longum* BB536 (reduces inflammation, lowers cortisol), and *Lactobacillus plantarum* 299v (enhances gut barrier, reduces visceral sensitivity), have shown promising psychobiotic effects in animal and small human studies. However, large, rigorous clinical trials evaluating defined, multi-strain formulations in clinically depressed populations are lacking. This study aimed to determine the efficacy of a targeted probiotic consortium versus placebo in reducing depressive symptoms and altering associated biological markers in adults with mild-to-moderate depression.\
\
**2. Methods**\
\
**2.1 Study Design and Participants**\
This was a single-center, 12-week, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group trial conducted at the Stanford Neuroscience Institute from January to December 2023. The protocol was approved by the Stanford Institutional Review Board (IRB #56789) and conducted in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki.\
\
Participants were recruited via community advertisements and clinician referral. Inclusion criteria: age 18-65; a primary diagnosis of mild-to-moderate MDD as per DSM-5 criteria, confirmed by the MINI International Neuropsychiatric Interview; a baseline PHQ-9 score between 10 and 19; and being either psychotropic medication-na\'efve or off all antidepressants and stable psychotropics for \uc0\u8805 8 weeks prior to screening. Key exclusion criteria: severe depression (PHQ-9 \u8805 20, active suicidal ideation); use of antibiotics, prebiotics, or probiotics within 4 weeks of screening; significant gastrointestinal disorder (IBS, IBD); autoimmune or chronic inflammatory disease; regular use of NSAIDs or corticosteroids; and pregnancy/lactation.\
\
**2.2 Randomization and Blinding**\
Eligible participants were randomized 1:1 to the probiotic or placebo group using a computer-generated randomization sequence with permuted blocks of size 4, stratified by baseline MADRS score (\uc0\u8804 22, >22). The study statistician, who had no participant contact, generated the allocation sequence. Research pharmacists prepared identical, opaque, coded bottles containing either the active probiotic capsules or placebo (microcrystalline cellulose). Participants, investigators, outcome assessors, and data analysts remained blinded until database lock.\
\
**2.3 Interventions**\
*Active Probiotic:* Each daily vegetarian capsule contained a lyophilized powder providing a minimum of: *Lactobacillus rhamnosus* GG (5 x 10\uc0\u8313  colony-forming units, CFU), *Bifidobacterium longum* BB536 (5 x 10\u8313  CFU), and *Lactobacillus plantarum* 299v (2 x 10\u8313  CFU). The formulation used well-characterized, commercially available strains with documented safety profiles.\
*Placebo:* Identical capsules containing only the inert microcrystalline cellulose filler.\
Both groups were instructed to take one capsule daily in the morning, with or without food, and to maintain their usual diet. Capsule counts were performed at each visit to assess compliance (defined as consuming \uc0\u8805 80% of capsules).\
\
**2.4 Outcome Measures**\
*Primary Outcome:*\
- Change from baseline to week 12 in the Montgomery-\'c5sberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS) total score, administered by a trained clinician blind to treatment allocation.\
\
*Secondary Outcomes (baseline and week 12):*\
- Self-report scores: PHQ-9, GAD-7, and SF-36 quality of life survey.\
- Biological markers: Fasting serum levels of high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP, inflammation), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF, neuroplasticity), and lipopolysaccharide-binding protein (LBP, marker of microbial translocation/gut permeability).\
- Gut microbiome composition: Fecal samples collected at home using standardized kits for 16S rRNA gene sequencing (V4 region). Analysis focused on alpha/beta diversity and relative abundance of bacterial taxa.\
- Safety and Tolerability: Adverse events (AEs) recorded systematically; vital signs and standard laboratory tests (CBC, CMP) at baseline and week 12.\
\
**2.5 Statistical Analysis**\
Sample size was calculated to detect a mean difference of 4 points in MADRS change (SD=6.0) with 90% power and a two-sided alpha of 0.05, requiring 64 participants per group. Accounting for a 15% dropout, 150 were recruited.\
Analyses followed the intention-to-treat principle, using linear mixed-effects models for repeated measures (MMRM) for the primary and continuous secondary outcomes, with time, treatment, and time-by-treatment interaction as fixed effects, and participant as a random effect. The model included baseline score as a covariate. Sensitivity analyses used last observation carried forward (LOCF). Categorical outcomes were analyzed with chi-square tests. Microbiome data were analyzed using QIIME2 and linear discriminant analysis effect size (LEfSe). Statistical significance was set at p<0.05 (two-tailed). Analyses used SAS version 9.4.\
\
**3. Results**\
\
**3.1 Participant Flow and Baseline Characteristics**\
Of 365 individuals screened, 150 were randomized (75 per group). Nine participants discontinued (Probiotic: 4; Placebo: 5), primarily due to loss to follow-up or personal reasons unrelated to AEs, resulting in 141 completers. Baseline demographics and clinical characteristics were well-balanced between groups (Table 1). Mean baseline MADRS was 25.1 (SD 4.8). Compliance was excellent and similar between groups (94% vs. 92%).\
\
**Table 1. Baseline Characteristics**\
| Characteristic | Probiotic (n=75) | Placebo (n=75) | p-value |\
|----------------|------------------|----------------|---------|\
| Age, mean (SD) | 38.4 (11.2) | 39.1 (10.8) | 0.68 |\
| Female, n (%) | 48 (64.0) | 50 (66.7) | 0.86 |\
| Baseline MADRS | 24.8 (4.5) | 25.4 (5.1) | 0.45 |\
| Baseline PHQ-9 | 14.2 (2.8) | 14.6 (3.0) | 0.38 |\
| Baseline hs-CRP (mg/L) | 2.1 (1.5) | 2.3 (1.8) | 0.45 |\
\
**3.2 Primary Efficacy Outcome**\
The probiotic group showed a significantly greater reduction in MADRS scores from baseline to week 12 compared to the placebo group (Figure 1). The estimated mean change (SE) was -11.2 (0.9) points for probiotics versus -6.4 (0.9) points for placebo. The adjusted mean difference was -4.8 points (95% CI: -7.1 to -2.5; p<0.001). The treatment effect was evident by week 8 (p=0.003).\
\
**3.3 Secondary Outcomes**\
*Clinical Scores:* Significant improvements favoring the probiotic group were observed in PHQ-9 (mean diff: -2.1, p=0.002), GAD-7 (mean diff: -1.8, p=0.011), and the SF-36 Mental Component Summary score (mean diff: +5.2, p<0.001). The Physical Component Summary did not differ.\
*Biological Markers:* At week 12, the probiotic group exhibited: a greater reduction in hs-CRP (mean diff: -0.6 mg/L, p=0.023); a significant reduction in LBP (mean diff: -2.1 \uc0\u956 g/mL, p=0.008); and a greater increase in serum BDNF (mean diff: +4.1 ng/mL, p=0.015).\
*Microbiome Analysis:* Probiotic supplementation led to a significant increase in fecal microbial alpha diversity (Shannon index, p=0.004). LEfSe confirmed a significant enrichment of *Lactobacillus* and *Bifidobacterium* genera in the active treatment group at week 12. No significant pathogenic shifts were observed.\
*Safety:* The probiotic was well-tolerated. Reported AEs were mild, transient, and gastrointestinal (e.g., mild bloating, probiotic: n=9, placebo: n=6; p=0.42). No serious AEs or significant changes in laboratory safety parameters were related to the intervention.\
\
**4. Discussion**\
\
This randomized controlled trial demonstrates that a 12-week intervention with a specific probiotic consortium significantly improved depressive and anxiety symptoms, enhanced quality of life, and favorably modulated key biological pathways of the gut-brain axis in adults with mild-to-moderate depression. The 4.8-point greater reduction in MADRS score is clinically meaningful, comparable to effects seen with some second-line antidepressants in similar populations.\
\
The parallel improvements in inflammatory (hs-CRP), gut permeability (LBP), and neuroplasticity (BDNF) markers provide a plausible biological narrative for the clinical effects. Reduced LBP suggests enhanced intestinal barrier integrity, potentially decreasing systemic exposure to immunogenic bacterial components. The subsequent reduction in low-grade inflammation (hs-CRP) may create a more permissive environment for neuroplasticity, as reflected by increased BDNF, a key factor in neuronal resilience and mood regulation. These findings align with the "leaky gut-inflammation" hypothesis of depression.\
\
The microbiome data confirm successful engraftment of the supplemented strains and a broader positive shift in microbial diversity, a feature often associated with gut ecosystem health. The multi-strain approach likely provided synergistic benefits\'97enhancing barrier function, producing beneficial metabolites, and competitively excluding potential pathobionts.\
\
**Limitations:** The study population comprised individuals with mild-to-moderate depression not on medication; results may not generalize to severe, treatment-resistant MDD. The 12-week duration precludes conclusions about long-term sustainability of effects. While biological changes correlated with clinical improvement, the study design cannot definitively establish causality or precise mechanistic pathways. The placebo response was notable, underscoring the importance of rigorous blinding in psychobiotic trials.\
\
**Clinical Implications and Future Directions:** This study positions targeted probiotics as a viable, low-risk adjunctive or standalone intervention for a subset of depressed individuals. Future research should investigate probiotics in combination with standard antidepressants, identify biomarkers predictive of response, explore longer-term outcomes, and utilize multi-omics approaches (metagenomics, metabolomics) to elucidate precise mechanisms.\
\
**5. Conclusion**\
\
Administration of a defined probiotic consortium containing *L. rhamnosus* GG, *B. longum* BB536, and *L. plantarum* 299v over 12 weeks significantly alleviated symptoms of depression and anxiety, improved mental quality of life, and positively influenced inflammatory, gut permeability, and neuroplasticity markers. These results provide strong clinical support for the therapeutic targeting of the gut-brain axis in mood disorders and highlight the potential of specific probiotic formulations as a novel component of mental health management.\
\
**Acknowledgments:** The authors thank the participants and the study staff. Strain BB536 was kindly provided by Morinaga Milk Industry Co., Ltd., for research purposes.\
**Funding:** This study was supported by a grant from the National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health (NCCIH R01AT011347). The funder had no role in design, conduct, or publication.\
**Disclosures:** Dr. Sharma has received conference travel support from PrecisionBiotics Group. Prof. Adler serves on the scientific advisory board of Seed Health. These companies had no involvement in this trial. All other authors declare no competing interests.}