{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 # **The Effects of Intermittent Fasting with Time-Restricted Eating on Metabolic Syndrome Parameters in Adults with Pre-Diabetes: A Randomized Controlled Trial**\
\
**Study Protocol**\
\
**1.0 Abstract**\
\
**Background:** The global rise in metabolic syndrome (MetS) and type 2 diabetes (T2D) represents a significant public health burden. Time-restricted eating (TRE), a form of intermittent fasting, has emerged as a promising non-pharmacological intervention to improve metabolic health. However, robust, long-term data on its efficacy in pre-diabetic populations are limited.\
\
**Objective:** To evaluate the effects of a 6-month, 8-hour TRE regimen versus standard dietary advice (SDA) on key parameters of MetS in adults with pre-diabetes.\
\
**Methods:** A single-center, randomized, controlled, parallel-group trial. 120 participants (aged 40-65, BMI 27-35 kg/m\'b2, HbA1c 5.7-6.4%) will be randomized 1:1 to TRE (ad libitum feeding within a self-selected 8-hour window) or SDA (standard nutritional counseling per ADA guidelines). The primary outcome is the change in the composite MetS z-score (incorporating waist circumference, fasting glucose, HDL-C, triglycerides, and systolic blood pressure) from baseline to 6 months. Secondary outcomes include changes in individual MetS components, HbA1c, insulin resistance (HOMA-IR), body composition (DEXA), lipid profile, inflammatory markers (hs-CRP, IL-6), and quality of life. Safety and adherence will be rigorously monitored.\
\
**Expected Results:** We hypothesize that the TRE group will demonstrate a significantly greater reduction in the composite MetS z-score compared to the SDA group, driven by improvements in insulin sensitivity, visceral adiposity, and lipid metabolism.\
\
**Significance:** This study will provide high-level evidence on the sustained efficacy and feasibility of TRE as a management strategy for pre-diabetes, potentially informing clinical practice guidelines.\
\
**2.0 Introduction**\
\
Metabolic syndrome (MetS) is a cluster of interconnected risk factors\'97central obesity, dysglycemia, dyslipidemia, and hypertension\'97that collectively increase the risk of cardiovascular disease and progression to type 2 diabetes (T2D) by approximately five-fold. With over 30% of the global adult population affected, MetS and its sequelae impose a staggering economic and healthcare burden.\
\
Pre-diabetes, characterized by impaired fasting glucose (IFG) and/or impaired glucose tolerance (IGT), is a critical intermediary stage where intervention can halt or reverse disease progression. While lifestyle modification focusing on caloric restriction and increased physical activity is the cornerstone of management, long-term adherence remains notoriously low. This adherence gap necessitates the exploration of sustainable, alternative dietary strategies.\
\
Intermittent fasting (IF), encompassing various eating patterns that cycle between periods of fasting and feeding, has gained substantial scientific and public interest. Time-restricted eating (TRE), a specific IF protocol, confines daily food intake to a consistent window of 8-10 hours, aligning food consumption with circadian rhythms. Animal and preliminary human studies suggest TRE can improve insulin sensitivity, reduce hepatic fat, lower blood pressure, and ameliorate dyslipidemia, independent of significant weight loss. Proposed mechanisms include enhanced mitochondrial function, increased autophagy, improved gut microbiome diversity, and the promotion of metabolic flexibility.\
\
Despite promising pilot data, significant gaps exist. Most human TRE studies have been short-term (\uc0\u8804 12 weeks), involved small sample sizes, or enrolled healthy or obese participants without a specific focus on pre-diabetes. The long-term (\u8805 6 months) impact of TRE on the full spectrum of MetS parameters in a well-defined pre-diabetic cohort, compared to standard care, remains unclear. This study aims to address this gap by conducting a rigorous 6-month randomized controlled trial (RCT).\
\
**3.0 Methods**\
\
**3.1 Study Design:** A 6-month, single-center, randomized, controlled, assessor-blinded, parallel-group trial. The study protocol has been approved by the Institutional Review Board (IRB) and registered on ClinicalTrials.gov. All participants will provide written informed consent.\
\
**3.2 Participants:** Recruitment will occur through primary care clinics, hospital databases, and community advertisements.\
\
*   **Inclusion Criteria:** Adults aged 40-65 years; BMI 27-35 kg/m\'b2; diagnosis of pre-diabetes (HbA1c 5.7-6.4% on two separate occasions within the past year); presence of at least one additional criterion for MetS (according to NCEP ATP III guidelines); stable weight (\'b13 kg in past 3 months); and ability to provide informed consent.\
*   **Exclusion Criteria:** Diagnosis of T2D; use of glucose-lowering, lipid-lowering (except stable statin therapy), or weight-loss medications; shift work or major circadian disruption; history of eating disorders; active malignancy; severe cardiovascular, renal, or hepatic disease; pregnancy or lactation; and alcohol or substance abuse.\
\
**3.3 Randomization and Blinding:** After baseline assessments, participants will be randomly assigned (1:1) to the TRE or SDA group using a computer-generated block randomization sequence, stratified by sex and baseline HbA1c (5.7-6.0% vs. 6.1-6.4%). Allocation will be concealed from the outcome assessors and the biostatistician.\
\
**3.4 Interventions:**\
\
*   **TRE Group:** Participants will be instructed to consume all caloric intake *ad libitum* within a self-selected, consistent 8-hour window each day (e.g., 10:00-18:00 or 12:00-20:00). Only water, black coffee, or unsweetened tea will be permitted outside this window. No specific instructions regarding calorie counting or food quality will be given, to isolate the effect of timing.\
*   **SDA Group:** Participants will receive standard dietary counseling based on American Diabetes Association (ADA) guidelines, focusing on a balanced, calorie-aware diet (e.g., Mediterranean-style), portion control, and carbohydrate distribution. They will receive three sessions with a registered dietitian (baseline, 1 month, 3 months).\
\
Both groups will receive identical advice to maintain their habitual physical activity levels and not to initiate new exercise programs.\
\
**3.5 Outcome Measures:**\
\
*   **Primary Outcome:** Change from baseline to 6 months in a standardized composite **MetS z-score**. The score will be calculated as the sum of the z-scores for the five NCEP ATP III components: waist circumference (inverted), fasting glucose (inverted), HDL-C, triglycerides (inverted), and systolic blood pressure (inverted). A lower score indicates improvement.\
*   **Secondary Outcomes (Baseline to 6 months):**\
    *   Changes in individual MetS components.\
    *   HbA1c (%) and fasting insulin.\
    *   Insulin resistance (HOMA-IR).\
    *   Body composition via DEXA (total fat mass, visceral adipose tissue (VAT), lean mass).\
    *   Full lipid panel (LDL-C, non-HDL-C).\
    *   Inflammatory markers: High-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP), Interleukin-6 (IL-6).\
    *   Quality of Life (QoL) assessed by the SF-36 and Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP) Impact Scale.\
*   **Safety & Adherence:** Adverse events (AEs), particularly headaches, dizziness, and fatigue. Adherence in the TRE group will be monitored via daily electronic logs and a weekly random 24-hour dietary recall. In the SDA group, adherence will be assessed via 3-day food diaries at baseline, 3, and 6 months.\
\
**3.6 Study Procedures:**\
Participants will attend the research unit at Baseline (Month 0), Month 3, and Month 6.\
*   **Baseline & Follow-up Visits:** Height, weight, waist circumference, seated BP (average of 3 readings), fasting blood draw (glucose, insulin, lipids, HbA1c, hs-CRP, IL-6), DEXA scan, and QoL questionnaires.\
*   **Monthly Check-ins:** Brief phone or video calls to assess safety, AEs, and provide motivational support.\
\
**3.7 Statistical Analysis:**\
A sample size of 108 participants (54 per group) provides 90% power (\uc0\u945 =0.05) to detect a between-group difference of 0.5 SD in the MetS z-score change, assuming a 10% dropout rate. Thus, 120 participants will be enrolled.\
\
Data will be analyzed according to the intention-to-treat (ITT) principle, with additional per-protocol analysis. Between-group differences in the primary and secondary continuous outcomes will be assessed using linear mixed-effects models, adjusting for baseline values and stratification factors. Missing data will be handled using multiple imputation. Subgroup analyses (by sex, baseline HbA1c, adherence level) will be exploratory. Statistical significance is set at p < 0.05 (two-tailed).\
\
**4.0 Expected Results and Discussion**\
\
**4.1 Anticipated Findings:** We hypothesize that the TRE group will achieve a statistically and clinically significant greater reduction in the composite MetS z-score compared to the SDA group at 6 months. We anticipate this will be driven by:\
1.  **Greater reduction in visceral adiposity**, as measured by DEXA, due to prolonged nightly fasting and potential increases in fat oxidation.\
2.  **Greater improvement in glycemic control** (HbA1c, HOMA-IR), resulting from enhanced insulin sensitivity in liver and muscle tissue, facilitated by metabolic switching and improved pancreatic \uc0\u946 -cell function.\
3.  **Favorable changes in lipid profile**, specifically a reduction in fasting triglycerides, related to improved hepatic lipid metabolism and clearance.\
4.  **Modest reductions in systolic blood pressure**, potentially mediated by autonomic nervous system modulation and improved endothelial function.\
\
We expect changes in inflammatory markers (hs-CRP) to be more variable and potentially correlated with the degree of VAT loss. Adherence in the TRE group is anticipated to be >80% for the first 3 months, with a gradual decline to ~70% by month 6, influenced by social factors.\
\
**4.2 Potential Mechanisms:** The benefits of TRE are hypothesized to extend beyond simple caloric restriction. By consolidating intake, TRE may:\
*   **Enhance Circadian Synchrony:** Aligning feeding with active daytime phases optimizes nutrient metabolism and hormone secretion (e.g., insulin).\
*   **Promote Metabolic Switching:** The extended fasting period depletes liver glycogen, forcing a shift to ketone production and fatty acid oxidation, improving metabolic flexibility.\
*   **Induce Autophagy:** The fasting state activates cellular "housekeeping" processes, clearing damaged organelles and proteins, which may improve insulin signaling.\
*   **Modulate the Gut Microbiome:** A defined feeding-fasting cycle may promote beneficial microbial rhythms and diversity, influencing host metabolism.\
\
**4.3 Clinical Implications and Potential Limitations:** If successful, this study will provide Level I evidence supporting TRE as a simple, scalable, and cost-effective first-line intervention for pre-diabetes and early MetS. Its strength lies in its pragmatic design, focusing on timing rather than food content, which may improve long-term adherence.\
\
**Limitations** must be acknowledged. First, the single-center design may limit generalizability. Second, while assessor-blinded, participants cannot be blinded to their dietary assignment, potentially introducing performance bias. Third, the 6-month duration, while longer than most TRE studies, is insufficient to assess long-term sustainability and hard endpoints like T2D incidence. Fourth, the *ad libitum* design makes it challenging to definitively separate the effects of timing from potential spontaneous caloric reduction.\
\
**5.0 Conclusion**\
\
This randomized controlled trial is designed to provide a comprehensive evaluation of the efficacy of a 6-month TRE intervention on the multifaceted pathophysiology of metabolic syndrome in adults with pre-diabetes. By employing a robust composite primary endpoint and detailed mechanistic secondary outcomes, it aims to move beyond weight-centric metrics and elucidate the true therapeutic potential of meal timing. The findings have the potential to significantly impact public health strategies for diabetes prevention and redefine standard lifestyle prescriptions for millions of at-risk individuals globally.\
\
**6.0 References (Selective)**\
1.  Patterson, R. E., & Sears, D. D. (2017). Metabolic effects of intermittent fasting. *Annual Review of Nutrition*.\
2.  Cienfuegos, S., et al. (2020). Effects of 4- and 6-h Time-Restricted Feeding on Weight and Cardiometabolic Health: A Randomized Controlled Trial. *Cell Metabolism*.\
3.  Jamshed, H., et al. (2022). Effectiveness of Early Time-Restricted Eating for Weight Loss, Fat Loss, and Cardiometabolic Health in Adults With Obesity: A Randomized Clinical Trial. *JAMA Internal Medicine*.\
4.  Wilkinson, M. J., et al. (2020). Ten-Hour Time-Restricted Eating Reduces Weight, Blood Pressure, and Atherogenic Lipids in Patients with Metabolic Syndrome. *Cell Metabolism*.\
5.  Grundy, S. M., et al. (2005). Diagnosis and management of the metabolic syndrome. *Circulation*.\
*(Full reference list available in the study protocol.)*\
\
**7.0 Timeline & Dissemination**\
*   **Months 1-6:** Recruitment and Screening.\
*   **Months 7-18:** Intervention Period.\
*   **Months 19-24:** Data Analysis and Manuscript Preparation.\
Results will be disseminated through peer-reviewed publications in a high-impact medical journal, presentations at international conferences (e.g., ADA, EASD), and summaries provided to all participants and the local healthcare community.}