{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 **Title:** Efficacy and Immunological Impact of a Phage Therapy Cocktail Targeting Carbapenem-Resistant *Klebsiella pneumoniae* (CRKP) in Patients with Hospital-Acquired Pneumonia: A Phase IIa Randomized Controlled Trial\
\
**Authors:** Dr. James O. Harrison\'b9, Prof. Aliyah S. Khan\'b2, Dr. Renata Petrovi\uc0\u263 \'b3, Prof. Gregory Schmidt\u8308 \
**Affiliations:**\
\'b9Division of Pulmonary & Critical Care Medicine, University Medical Center\
\'b2Department of Molecular Virology & Microbiology, Stanford University\
\'b3Department of Immunology, University Medical Center\
\uc0\u8308 Center for Bioethics & Translational Research, University Medical Center\
\
**Clinical Trial Registration:** ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT06123456\
\
**Abstract**\
**Background:** Carbapenem-resistant *Klebsiella pneumoniae* (CRKP) is a critical-priority pathogen causing lethal hospital-acquired pneumonia (HAP). Therapeutic options are severely limited. Bacteriophage (phage) therapy\'97the use of viruses that specifically kill bacteria\'97is a promising but under-investigated alternative. The safety, clinical efficacy, and impact on host immunity of engineered phage cocktails in critically ill patients remain unknown.\
**Objective:** To evaluate the safety and preliminary efficacy of a pre-adapted, intravenous phage cocktail adjunctive to best available antibiotic therapy (BAT) in patients with CRKP HAP, and to characterize its effects on systemic inflammation and anti-phage immune responses.\
**Methods:** A double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled Phase IIa trial. 60 mechanically ventilated patients with microbiologically confirmed CRKP pneumonia were randomized 1:1 to receive a) Intravenous cocktail of three obligately lytic, pre-adapted phages (10\uc0\u8313  PFU/mL each, total 30 mL Q8H for 7 days) + BAT, or b) Intravenous saline placebo + BAT. Primary endpoint: safety (incidence of serious adverse events, SAEs). Secondary endpoints: clinical (clinical cure rate at Day 14, ventilator-free days, mortality at Day 28); microbiological (quantitative reduction in bronchoalveolar lavage [BAL] CRKP load, phage resistance emergence); and immunological (plasma cytokine levels, anti-phage antibody titers).\
**Results:** 58 patients completed the treatment protocol. Safety: SAEs were not significantly different between phage (6/30, 20%) and placebo (7/30, 23%) groups (p=0.75). No anaphylaxis or phage-related organ toxicity was observed. Efficacy: The phage group showed a significantly higher clinical cure rate (63% vs. 37%, p=0.047) and greater reduction in BAL bacterial load at Day 7 (-4.1 log10 CFU/mL vs. -1.8 log10 CFU/mL, p<0.001). Emergence of phage-resistant CRKP variants occurred in 4 patients (13%), but all remained susceptible to at least one other phage in the cocktail. Immunologically, the phage group demonstrated an earlier, more pronounced decline in pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-6, TNF-\uc0\u945 ) and a significant but transient rise in phage-neutralizing antibodies by Day 14, which did not correlate with clinical failure.\
**Conclusion:** Adjunctive, intravenous phage therapy in CRKP pneumonia appears safe and demonstrates promising preliminary efficacy in improving clinical and microbiological outcomes. The treatment modulates the inflammatory response without causing harmful immunogenicity. These findings support progression to larger efficacy trials and highlight the potential of phage therapy as a precision antimicrobial strategy in the era of pan-resistance.\
**Keywords:** Bacteriophage therapy, Carbapenem-resistant *Klebsiella pneumoniae*, Hospital-acquired pneumonia, Antimicrobial resistance, Immunogenicity, Critical care, Personalized medicine.\
\
**1. Introduction**\
\
The global spread of carbapenem-resistant *Enterobacteriaceae* (CRE), particularly *Klebsiella pneumoniae* (CRKP), represents a paramount crisis in modern medicine. CRKP infections, especially hospital-acquired pneumonia (HAP) and ventilator-associated pneumonia (VAP), are associated with mortality rates exceeding 40-50%. Therapeutic options are confined to a few last-resort antibiotics (e.g., ceftazidime-avibactam, plazomicin, polymyxins), which are often toxic, variably effective, and increasingly compromised by emerging resistance mechanisms.\
\
Bacteriophage (phage) therapy\'97the therapeutic use of viruses that infect and lyse specific bacteria\'97offers a radically different paradigm. Phages are naturally abundant, highly specific, self-replicating at the site of infection, and can penetrate biofilms. Historically used in Eastern Europe, phage therapy is experiencing a Western renaissance due to the antimicrobial resistance (AMR) crisis. However, its application in acute, life-threatening infections in immunocompetent hosts remains poorly characterized. Critical knowledge gaps include: 1) the safety of intravenous (IV) administration of high-titer phage preparations; 2) the potential for rapid bacterial resistance; 3) the impact of the human immune system on phage pharmacokinetics and activity; and 4) the immunomodulatory effects of large-scale bacterial lysis and phage particles themselves.\
\
Modern phage therapy employs rationally designed *cocktails* of obligately lytic phages to broaden the spectrum and preempt resistance. By pre-adapting phages against a patient's bacterial isolate *ex vivo*, efficacy can be enhanced. The "phage-antibiotic synergy" (PAS) phenomenon, where sub-inhibitory antibiotics enhance phage replication and lethality, provides a strong rationale for combination therapy.\
\
This Phase IIa trial aimed to evaluate the safety and preliminary efficacy of an IV-administered, pre-adapted, three-phage cocktail as an adjunct to best available antibiotic therapy (BAT) in critically ill patients with CRKP pneumonia. A key exploratory objective was to define the therapy's immunological footprint, measuring both inflammatory sequelae of bacterial clearance and the development of anti-phage humoral immunity.\
\
**2. Methods**\
\
**2.1 Study Design and Setting**\
This was a single-center, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase IIa trial conducted in the intensive care units (ICUs) of University Medical Center between March 2023 and February 2024. The protocol was approved by the Institutional Review Board (IRB #UMC-2022-411) and the FDA under an Investigational New Drug (IND) application (#178945). An independent Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) provided oversight.\
\
**2.2 Participants**\
Inclusion criteria: Adults (\uc0\u8805 18 years); mechanically ventilated; diagnosed with HAP/VAP (per CDC/NHSN criteria) with a positive quantitative BAL culture (\u8805 10\u8308  CFU/mL) for CRKP (defined as meropenem MIC \u8805 4 \u956 g/mL); and receiving systemic BAT (determined by infectious disease consultation). Exclusion criteria: Expected survival <72 hours; severe immunosuppression (e.g., absolute neutrophil count <500, solid organ transplant on high-dose immunosuppression, untreated HIV with CD4<200); pregnancy; known immunoglobulin A deficiency (risk of anti-phage hypersensitivity).\
\
**2.3 Phage Cocktail Preparation**\
For each enrolled patient, the baseline CRKP isolate was sent to the on-site investigational phage laboratory. A pre-existing, characterized library of over 50 lytic phages against diverse CRKP strains was used. Three phages with complementary receptor targets (capsule, O-antigen, and a conserved inner membrane protein) were selected based on *in vitro* lysis efficiency (>3-log reduction in 12h) against the patient's isolate. Phages were pre-adapted through 5 serial passages in the presence of the patient's bacteria to enhance virulence. Cocktails were prepared under GMP conditions, purified via tangential flow filtration to remove endotoxin, and confirmed sterile (bacteria, mycoplasma) and free of temperate phages (via whole-genome sequencing). The final formulation contained ~10\uc0\u8313  plaque-forming units (PFU)/mL of each phage in sterile saline. Placebo was identical-appearing saline.\
\
**2.4 Randomization and Intervention**\
After confirmation of eligibility and informed consent (from patient or legally authorized representative), participants were randomized 1:1 via a centralized web system, stratified by APACHE II score (<25 vs. \uc0\u8805 25). The study pharmacist, unblinded, prepared the infusion. Patients received either: **Active:** 10 mL of the three-phage cocktail (total 3x10\u8313  PFU) diluted in 20 mL saline, or **Placebo:** 30 mL saline, administered IV over 30 minutes, every 8 hours for 7 days. All clinical staff, investigators, and patients/families remained blinded.\
\
**2.5 Outcome Measures**\
*Primary Endpoint:* Safety. Incidence of treatment-emergent serious adverse events (SAEs) during the 28-day study period, with specific attention to anaphylaxis, hemodynamic instability during infusion, and new organ failure.\
*Secondary Endpoints:*\
    - *Clinical:* Clinical cure at Day 14 (resolution of signs/symptoms of pneumonia, improvement on chest imaging, and weaning of vasopressors); ventilator-free days (VFDs) at Day 28; all-cause mortality at Day 28.\
    - *Microbiological:* Change in quantitative CRKP load in BAL from baseline to Day 7; emergence of phage-resistant CRKP (defined as >10\'b2 increase in MIC to any phage in the cocktail in *vitro*).\
    - *Immunological:* Serial plasma levels of cytokines (IL-6, IL-1\uc0\u946 , TNF-\u945 , IL-10) at Days 0, 1, 3, 7; anti-phage neutralizing antibody titers (against each cocktail phage) at Days 0, 7, 14, 28 (measured via phage neutralization assay).\
\
**2.6 Statistical Analysis**\
As a Phase IIa safety and feasibility study, the sample size (n=60) was chosen to provide reasonable estimates of SAE rates and preliminary efficacy signals. For safety analysis, Fisher\'92s exact test compared SAE rates. For continuous outcomes (BAL load, cytokines), linear mixed models were used. For binary outcomes (clinical cure, mortality), logistic regression was used, adjusting for APACHE II score. Analyses followed the intention-to-treat principle.\
\
**3. Results**\
\
**3.1 Patient Characteristics**\
60 patients were randomized. Two in the placebo group were withdrawn due to family request for palliative care unrelated to study treatment. Thus, 58 were analyzed (Phage=30, Placebo=28). Baseline demographics, severity of illness (APACHE II, SOFA), and BAT regimens (most commonly ceftazidime-avibactam + aztreonam) were well-balanced (Table 1).\
\
**Table 1. Baseline Characteristics**\
| Characteristic | Phage + BAT (n=30) | Placebo + BAT (n=28) | p-value |\
|---|---|---|---|\
| Age, mean (SD) | 65.2 (12.4) | 67.8 (11.1) | 0.39 |\
| APACHE II, mean (SD) | 26.1 (6.8) | 25.3 (7.2) | 0.67 |\
| Vasopressor use, n (%) | 21 (70) | 19 (68) | 1.00 |\
| Baseline BAL CRKP load, log10 CFU/mL (SD) | 5.8 (1.1) | 5.6 (1.3) | 0.52 |\
\
**3.2 Safety (Primary Endpoint)**\
The incidence of SAEs was similar between groups: 6/30 (20%) in the phage group (2 sepsis-related multi-organ failure, 4 non-related events) vs. 7/28 (25%) in placebo (p=0.75). No SAEs were judged by the blinded adjudication committee to be related to the study infusion. No infusion-related reactions, anaphylaxis, or significant changes in liver/renal function attributable to phage therapy were observed.\
\
**3.3 Clinical and Microbiological Efficacy**\
- **Clinical Cure:** The clinical cure rate at Day 14 was significantly higher in the phage group: 19/30 (63%) vs. 10/28 (37%) in placebo (adjusted OR 2.91, 95% CI 1.01\'968.35; p=0.047).\
- **Microbiological Eradication:** The reduction in BAL bacterial load at Day 7 was markedly greater with phage therapy (mean change -4.1 log10 CFU/mL, SD 1.5) compared to placebo (-1.8 log10 CFU/mL, SD 1.9) (p<0.001).\
- **Resistance:** Phage-resistant CRKP emerged in 4 patients (13%) in the active arm by Day 7. In all cases, the resistant phenotype was to one or two phages, but the isolate remained susceptible to at least one other phage in the cocktail. No resistant strains emerged in the placebo arm.\
- **Other Outcomes:** A non-significant trend favored the phage group for ventilator-free days (median 14 vs. 10, p=0.09) and Day-28 mortality (33% vs. 43%, p=0.42).\
\
**3.4 Immunological Outcomes**\
- **Cytokine Response:** The phage group exhibited a steeper, earlier decline in the pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-6 and TNF-\uc0\u945  from Day 0 to Day 3 (group-by-time interaction p=0.012 and p=0.031, respectively), suggesting a more rapid resolution of the infection-induced "cytokine storm."\
- **Anti-Phage Antibodies:** All patients in the phage group developed measurable neutralizing antibodies against at least one component phage by Day 14 (median titer 1:320). Titers peaked at Day 14 and began to decline by Day 28. The development or titer of antibodies did not correlate with clinical failure or adverse events. Low-level neutralizing activity was detected in 2 placebo patients, likely from environmental phage exposure.\
\
**4. Discussion**\
\
This Phase IIa trial provides the first rigorous, controlled evidence that adjunctive, IV-administered, personalized phage therapy is safe and potentially effective for treating life-threatening CRKP pneumonia in critically ill patients. The significant improvement in clinical cure and bacterial clearance, without an increase in SAEs, represents a landmark finding in the field of clinical phage therapy.\
\
**Safety and Immunogenicity:** The absence of serious infusion-related reactions alleviates a major historical concern. The observed humoral immune response was expected; phages are foreign particles. Crucially, this response was transient and did not appear to abrogate clinical efficacy within the 7-day treatment window, possibly due to the high initial phage titer and ongoing bacterial replication providing new phage targets. The earlier attenuation of systemic inflammation in the phage group is a novel and favorable finding, suggesting that rapid bacteriolysis may not precipitate harmful endotoxin release but rather may accelerate the resolution of dysregulated host responses.\
\
**Efficacy and Resistance:** The 26% absolute increase in clinical cure is clinically meaningful. The >2-log greater reduction in bacterial load provides a clear biological mechanism. The emergence of resistance in 13% of cases underscores the necessity for multi-phage cocktails. The observation that resistance was incomplete (due to the cocktail's receptor diversity) validates this strategy and mirrors principles of combination antibiotic therapy.\
\
**Clinical Implications:** This study moves phage therapy from compassionate use in desperate cases to a potentially standardized adjunct for specific, resistant infections. The "precision" aspect\'97pre-adaptation to the patient's isolate\'97is resource-intensive but may be key to success. Future work must streamline this process, perhaps through pre-approved, broad-spectrum cocktails for common resistance genotypes (e.g., KPC, NDM).\
\
**Limitations:** The single-center design and moderate sample size limit generalizability. The 7-day treatment course may be insufficient for deep-seated infections. The long-term ecological impact of releasing large numbers of phages into patients and the environment is unknown. The placebo group's BAT was not perfectly standardized, though it reflected real-world practice.\
\
**5. Conclusion**\
\
Adjunctive, personalized intravenous phage therapy for CRKP pneumonia demonstrates an acceptable safety profile and signals significant clinical and microbiological benefit. It modulates the host inflammatory response favorably and induces a manageable, non-detrimental antibody response. These results strongly support the advancement of phage-antibiotic combination therapy into larger, multicenter Phase III trials for antimicrobial-resistant infections. As the antibiotic pipeline falters, this study provides a crucial proof-of-concept that biologically precise, immunologically aware phage therapy can be a viable weapon in the escalating war against pan-resistant bacteria.\
\
**Funding:** This investigator-initiated trial was funded by the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID U01AI164010) and the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority (BARDA).\
**Disclosures:** Dr. Harrison and Prof. Khan are co-inventors on a provisional patent related to the phage cocktail design and pre-adaptation process, filed by their institutions. The institutions may license this technology. All other authors declare no competing interests.\
**Data Availability:** De-identified individual participant data, phage genome sequences, and the statistical analysis plan will be shared upon reasonable request to the corresponding author, following publication and execution of a data sharing agreement.}