{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red109\green109\blue109;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c50196\c50196\c50196;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Absolutely! Below is a 
\f1\b complete, original medical scientific study
\f0\b0 , written in standard journal format, around 
\f1\b 1500 words
\f0\b0 , fully self-contained and plausible. No references are included, as requested.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa321\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs48 \cf0 \strokec2 Effects of Omega-3 Fatty Acid Supplementation on Cognitive Function in Older Adults with Mild Cognitive Impairment: A Randomized Controlled Trial\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\fs36 \cf0 Abstract\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Background:
\f0\b0  Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) is a transitional stage between normal aging and dementia, characterized by memory deficits and cognitive decline. Omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) have been proposed to support neurocognitive function, but evidence from clinical trials remains limited.\

\f1\b Objective:
\f0\b0  To evaluate the effects of high-dose omega-3 supplementation on cognitive performance, memory, and daily functioning in older adults with MCI.\

\f1\b Methods:
\f0\b0  This 24-week, double-blind, randomized controlled trial enrolled 120 adults aged 60\'9680 years with MCI, confirmed using standardized neuropsychological testing. Participants were randomized to receive either omega-3 PUFAs (1,200 mg/day DHA + 600 mg/day EPA, n = 60) or placebo (olive oil, n = 60). Cognitive function was assessed using the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) and Alzheimer\'92s Disease Assessment Scale\'96Cognitive Subscale (ADAS-Cog). Secondary outcomes included memory recall (Rey Auditory Verbal Learning Test), executive function (Trail Making Test), and activities of daily living (ADL scale). Safety and tolerability were monitored throughout the study.\

\f1\b Results:
\f0\b0  At 24 weeks, the omega-3 group showed a significant improvement in MoCA scores (mean change: +2.5 \'b1 1.1) compared to placebo (+0.6 \'b1 1.0, p < 0.001). ADAS-Cog scores improved by \uc0\u8722 3.2 \'b1 1.5 points in the omega-3 group versus \u8722 0.7 \'b1 1.3 in controls (p < 0.001). Memory recall increased by 15% in the omega-3 group, and executive function improved significantly as measured by Trail Making Test completion times (p < 0.01). Daily functioning scores also improved modestly. Omega-3 supplementation was well-tolerated with no serious adverse events.\

\f1\b Conclusions:
\f0\b0  High-dose omega-3 PUFA supplementation improves cognitive performance, memory, and executive function in older adults with MCI. Omega-3 supplementation may be a safe and effective intervention to slow cognitive decline in this population.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 \strokec2 Introduction\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) is characterized by measurable deficits in cognitive function, particularly memory, without significant impairment of daily activities. Individuals with MCI are at increased risk of progressing to dementia, including Alzheimer\'92s disease, and strategies to preserve cognitive function in this population are of high clinical importance.\
Omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs), including docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) and eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA), are essential components of neuronal membranes and are involved in neuroinflammation modulation, synaptic plasticity, and neuroprotection. Epidemiological studies suggest that higher dietary intake of omega-3 PUFAs is associated with better cognitive performance in older adults. However, randomized clinical trials have yielded inconsistent results, possibly due to differences in dosing, duration, and participant characteristics.\
This study aimed to assess whether high-dose omega-3 PUFA supplementation over 24 weeks improves cognitive function, memory, executive function, and daily living abilities in older adults with MCI. We hypothesized that omega-3 supplementation would significantly enhance cognitive performance compared to placebo.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 \strokec2 Methods\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf0 Study Design and Participants\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 This was a 24-week, single-center, double-blind, randomized controlled trial. Participants aged 60\'9680 years were recruited from outpatient clinics and community advertisements. Inclusion criteria were: diagnosis of MCI based on MoCA scores between 18\'9625 and objective memory impairment on standardized neuropsychological testing, stable medical conditions, and ability to provide informed consent.\
Exclusion criteria included: diagnosis of dementia, uncontrolled hypertension or diabetes, history of stroke or traumatic brain injury, current use of high-dose omega-3 supplements, anticoagulant therapy, or severe psychiatric disorders.\
Eligible participants provided written informed consent. The study protocol was approved by the institutional review board.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Randomization and Blinding\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Participants were randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to omega-3 supplementation or placebo using a computer-generated sequence, stratified by age and baseline MoCA score. The study capsules were identical in appearance, and both participants and outcome assessors were blinded to group allocation.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Intervention\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 The omega-3 group received capsules providing 1,200 mg DHA and 600 mg EPA per day. The placebo group received matching capsules containing olive oil. Participants were instructed to maintain their usual diet and physical activity throughout the study. Adherence was assessed via capsule counts and serum omega-3 levels at baseline and 24 weeks.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Outcome Measures\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Primary outcomes:
\f0\b0 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Cognitive function assessed using the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA).\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Global cognitive performance measured by the Alzheimer\'92s Disease Assessment Scale\'96Cognitive Subscale (ADAS-Cog).\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Secondary outcomes:
\f0\b0 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Memory recall using the Rey Auditory Verbal Learning Test (RAVLT).\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Executive function assessed using Trail Making Test (parts A and B).\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Activities of daily living (ADL) assessed using the Katz Index.\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Safety outcomes: adverse events, gastrointestinal symptoms, bleeding tendencies, and laboratory markers.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Assessments were performed at baseline and at 24 weeks by trained neuropsychologists blinded to group allocation.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Statistical Analysis\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Sample size calculations indicated that 50 participants per group would provide 80% power to detect a 2-point difference in MoCA scores between groups, assuming a standard deviation of 2.5, with \uc0\u945  = 0.05. To account for potential dropouts, 60 participants per group were recruited.\
Data were analyzed on an intention-to-treat basis. Continuous variables were expressed as mean \'b1 standard deviation. Between-group differences were assessed using repeated-measures ANOVA. Categorical variables were compared using chi-square tests. Statistical significance was set at p < 0.05.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 \strokec2 Results\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf0 Participant Flow and Baseline Characteristics\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Of 150 individuals screened, 120 met inclusion criteria and were randomized (omega-3: n = 60; placebo: n = 60). Four participants in the omega-3 group and five in the placebo group withdrew before study completion due to personal reasons. All participants were included in the intention-to-treat analysis.\
Baseline characteristics were similar between groups. Mean age was 68.4 \'b1 5.6 years, 55% were female, mean MoCA score was 21.4 \'b1 1.9, mean ADAS-Cog score was 15.6 \'b1 3.1, and RAVLT immediate recall was 34.5 \'b1 5.2.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 \strokec2 Primary Outcomes\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Cognitive Function:
\f0\b0 \uc0\u8232 After 24 weeks, the omega-3 group showed significant improvement in MoCA scores (+2.5 \'b1 1.1) compared to placebo (+0.6 \'b1 1.0, p < 0.001). ADAS-Cog scores decreased by \u8722 3.2 \'b1 1.5 in the omega-3 group versus \u8722 0.7 \'b1 1.3 in controls (p < 0.001), indicating enhanced cognitive performance (Figure 1).\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 \strokec2 Secondary Outcomes\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Memory Recall:
\f0\b0 \uc0\u8232 Participants receiving omega-3 showed a 15% improvement in RAVLT total recall (mean increase: 5.1 \'b1 2.4 words) compared to a 3% improvement in placebo (mean increase: 1.1 \'b1 1.9 words, p < 0.01).\

\f1\b Executive Function:
\f0\b0 \uc0\u8232 Trail Making Test completion times improved significantly in the omega-3 group (part A: \u8722 6.2 \'b1 3.1 seconds; part B: \u8722 12.5 \'b1 4.7 seconds), compared to non-significant changes in placebo (part A: \u8722 1.1 \'b1 2.9; part B: \u8722 2.3 \'b1 3.5, p < 0.01).\

\f1\b Activities of Daily Living:
\f0\b0 \uc0\u8232 ADL scores improved modestly in the omega-3 group (+0.8 \'b1 0.4) versus placebo (+0.1 \'b1 0.3, p < 0.05).\

\f1\b Safety and Tolerability:
\f0\b0 \uc0\u8232 Omega-3 supplementation was well tolerated. Mild gastrointestinal symptoms were reported by 6 participants in the omega-3 group and 5 in placebo. No serious adverse events occurred. Serum lipid profiles remained stable, and no bleeding complications were observed. Adherence exceeded 90% in both groups.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 \strokec2 Discussion\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 This randomized controlled trial demonstrates that 24 weeks of high-dose omega-3 PUFA supplementation significantly improves global cognitive function, memory, executive function, and daily functioning in older adults with MCI. Improvements in MoCA and ADAS-Cog scores were clinically meaningful, suggesting potential to slow cognitive decline and enhance quality of life.\
The observed cognitive benefits may be explained by omega-3-mediated neuroprotective mechanisms, including incorporation of DHA into neuronal membranes, modulation of neuroinflammation, enhanced synaptic plasticity, and improved cerebral perfusion. Memory and executive function improvements suggest widespread effects on hippocampal and frontal cortical networks.\
Daily functioning improvements, though modest, suggest that enhanced cognition translates into better performance in everyday activities. Importantly, omega-3 supplementation was safe and well tolerated, supporting its use as a non-pharmacological intervention for MCI.\
Limitations include the relatively short duration of 24 weeks, single-center design, and lack of neuroimaging to confirm mechanistic effects. Long-term effects, optimal dosing, and potential synergy with other interventions such as exercise or cognitive training remain to be determined.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 \strokec2 Conclusion\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 High-dose omega-3 PUFA supplementation for 24 weeks significantly improves cognitive function, memory, executive performance, and daily functioning in older adults with MCI. Omega-3 supplementation is safe and well tolerated, offering a promising intervention to slow cognitive decline and enhance quality of life in this population. Larger, multi-center, and longer-term trials are warranted to confirm these findings and explore mechanisms of action.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 \strokec2 Word count:
\f0\b0  ~1,520\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \strokec2 If you want, I can 
\f1\b also create realistic tables and figures
\f0\b0  for MoCA, ADAS-Cog, RAVLT, and Trail Making Test scores, which would make this read like an actual journal manuscript.\
Do you want me to do that next?\
}