{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red109\green109\blue109;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c50196\c50196\c50196;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}
{\list\listtemplateid5\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid401\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid5}
{\list\listtemplateid6\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid501\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid6}
{\list\listtemplateid7\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid601\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid7}
{\list\listtemplateid8\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid701\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid8}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid5\listoverridecount0\ls5}{\listoverride\listid6\listoverridecount0\ls6}{\listoverride\listid7\listoverridecount0\ls7}{\listoverride\listid8\listoverridecount0\ls8}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Absolutely! Here\'92s a 
\f1\b full-length, original medical scientific study
\f0\b0  in standard journal format, around 
\f1\b 1500 words
\f0\b0 , fully self-contained and plausible, without references:\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa321\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs48 \cf0 \strokec2 Effect of High-Intensity Interval Training on Insulin Sensitivity and Cardiometabolic Risk Factors in Adults with Metabolic Syndrome: A Randomized Controlled Trial\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\fs36 \cf0 Abstract\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Background:
\f0\b0  Metabolic syndrome (MetS) is a cluster of cardiometabolic risk factors including abdominal obesity, insulin resistance, dyslipidemia, and hypertension. Lifestyle interventions, particularly exercise, are central to its management. High-intensity interval training (HIIT) has been suggested as an efficient method to improve insulin sensitivity and cardiovascular health, but data in adults with MetS remain limited.\

\f1\b Objective:
\f0\b0  To evaluate the effects of a 12-week supervised HIIT program on insulin sensitivity, body composition, lipid profile, and blood pressure in adults with MetS.\

\f1\b Methods:
\f0\b0  This randomized controlled trial enrolled 120 adults aged 35\'9665 years with MetS according to ATP III criteria. Participants were randomized to either a HIIT group (n = 60) or a control group receiving standard lifestyle counseling (CON, n = 60). The HIIT intervention consisted of 4 weekly sessions of 4 \'d7 4-minute intervals at 85\'9695% maximal heart rate, interspersed with 3-minute active recovery, on a cycle ergometer or treadmill. Primary outcomes included insulin sensitivity assessed via HOMA-IR and fasting plasma glucose. Secondary outcomes included waist circumference, body mass index (BMI), lipid profile, blood pressure, and cardiorespiratory fitness (VO\uc0\u8322 max).\

\f1\b Results:
\f0\b0  After 12 weeks, the HIIT group showed a significant reduction in HOMA-IR (\uc0\u8722 1.8 \'b1 0.7) compared to CON (\u8722 0.3 \'b1 0.5, p < 0.001), and fasting glucose decreased by \u8722 15.7 \'b1 9.4 mg/dL versus \u8722 3.2 \'b1 7.1 mg/dL in controls (p < 0.001). HIIT significantly reduced waist circumference (\u8722 4.3 \'b1 2.1 cm), BMI (\u8722 1.4 \'b1 0.6 kg/m\'b2), total cholesterol (\u8722 12.9 \'b1 7.8 mg/dL), LDL (\u8722 10.4 \'b1 6.2 mg/dL), triglycerides (\u8722 18.7 \'b1 11.5 mg/dL), and systolic/diastolic blood pressure (\u8722 9.2 \'b1 5.3 / \u8722 6.1 \'b1 4.0 mmHg) compared to controls (all p < 0.01). VO\u8322 max improved by 15.2 \'b1 6.1% in the HIIT group versus 2.3 \'b1 4.5% in controls (p < 0.001). No serious adverse events were reported.\

\f1\b Conclusions:
\f0\b0  Twelve-week supervised HIIT improves insulin sensitivity, body composition, lipid profile, blood pressure, and cardiorespiratory fitness in adults with MetS. HIIT is an effective and time-efficient strategy to reduce cardiometabolic risk in this population.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 \strokec2 Introduction\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Metabolic syndrome (MetS) affects a growing proportion of adults worldwide and is associated with increased risk of type 2 diabetes mellitus, cardiovascular disease, and all-cause mortality. Central obesity, insulin resistance, dyslipidemia, and elevated blood pressure are core features. Lifestyle interventions, including dietary modification and physical activity, are recommended as first-line management.\
Aerobic exercise improves insulin sensitivity, reduces adiposity, and modulates lipid metabolism, but traditional moderate-intensity continuous training requires considerable time commitment, which may limit adherence. High-intensity interval training (HIIT) involves repeated short bouts of vigorous exercise interspersed with recovery periods and has emerged as an efficient alternative. HIIT has been shown to enhance glucose metabolism, improve endothelial function, and increase cardiorespiratory fitness in various populations, but evidence in adults with MetS remains limited and variable.\
The present study aimed to evaluate the effects of a 12-week supervised HIIT program on insulin sensitivity, glycemic control, cardiometabolic risk factors, and cardiorespiratory fitness in adults with MetS. We hypothesized that HIIT would improve insulin sensitivity, body composition, lipid profile, blood pressure, and VO\uc0\u8322 max compared to standard lifestyle counseling.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 \strokec2 Methods\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf0 Study Design and Participants\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 This was a single-center, 12-week, parallel-group randomized controlled trial. Adults aged 35\'9665 years with MetS (defined by ATP III criteria: \uc0\u8805 3 of the following\'97waist circumference \u8805 102 cm in men or \u8805 88 cm in women, triglycerides \u8805 150 mg/dL, HDL <40 mg/dL in men or <50 mg/dL in women, blood pressure \u8805 130/85 mmHg, fasting glucose \u8805 100 mg/dL) were recruited from community clinics.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Inclusion criteria:
\f0\b0 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Sedentary lifestyle (<2 structured exercise sessions per week)\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Stable medications for at least 3 months\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Exclusion criteria:
\f0\b0 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Cardiovascular disease, uncontrolled hypertension, or arrhythmias\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Severe musculoskeletal disorders limiting exercise\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Pregnancy or lactation\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Type 2 diabetes on insulin therapy\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Participation in structured exercise programs in the last 3 months\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Written informed consent was obtained. The study was approved by the institutional ethics committee.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Randomization and Blinding\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Participants were randomized 1:1 to HIIT or CON using a computer-generated sequence stratified by sex and age. Outcome assessors were blinded to group allocation. Due to the nature of the intervention, participants could not be blinded.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Interventions\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 HIIT Group:
\f0\b0  Participants performed 4 sessions per week of HIIT, each consisting of:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 4 \'d7 4-minute intervals at 85\'9695% of maximal heart rate (HRmax)\
\ls3\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 3-minute active recovery between intervals at 50\'9660% HRmax\
\ls3\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Sessions performed on treadmill or cycle ergometer under supervision\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Control Group (CON):
\f0\b0  Participants received standard lifestyle counseling on healthy diet, physical activity, and general diabetes/metabolic health education. No structured exercise was prescribed.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Outcome Measures\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Primary Outcomes:
\f0\b0 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls4\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Insulin sensitivity: HOMA-IR (fasting insulin \'d7 fasting glucose / 405)\
\ls4\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Fasting plasma glucose (mg/dL)\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Secondary Outcomes:
\f0\b0 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls5\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Anthropometrics: weight, BMI, waist circumference\
\ls5\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Lipid profile: total cholesterol, LDL, HDL, triglycerides\
\ls5\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Blood pressure (systolic and diastolic)\
\ls5\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Cardiorespiratory fitness: VO\uc0\u8322 max measured by graded treadmill test\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Measurements were conducted at baseline and 12 weeks after an overnight fast.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Adherence and Safety\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Adherence in the HIIT group was defined as the percentage of supervised sessions completed. Adverse events (musculoskeletal injury, hypoglycemia, cardiovascular complications) were monitored throughout the study.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Statistical Analysis\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Sample size calculation indicated that 50 participants per group would provide 80% power to detect a 0.8-unit difference in HOMA-IR, assuming SD = 1.2, at \uc0\u945  = 0.05. To account for dropouts, 60 participants per group were recruited.\
Data were analyzed on an intention-to-treat basis. Continuous variables were expressed as mean \'b1 SD. Between-group differences were assessed using repeated-measures ANOVA. Categorical variables were compared using chi-square tests. Statistical significance was defined as p < 0.05.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 \strokec2 Results\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf0 Participant Flow and Baseline Characteristics\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Of 150 individuals screened, 120 met inclusion criteria and were randomized (HIIT: n = 60; CON: n = 60). Five participants in HIIT and six in CON withdrew for personal reasons unrelated to the intervention. All participants were included in the intention-to-treat analysis.\
Baseline characteristics were comparable between groups: mean age 51.2 \'b1 7.1 years, 55% female, mean BMI 31.4 \'b1 2.8 kg/m\'b2, mean waist circumference 105.2 \'b1 7.5 cm, mean fasting glucose 112.8 \'b1 11.4 mg/dL, mean HOMA-IR 3.6 \'b1 0.8.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 \strokec2 Primary Outcomes\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 HOMA-IR:
\f0\b0  HIIT significantly reduced HOMA-IR by \uc0\u8722 1.8 \'b1 0.7 versus \u8722 0.3 \'b1 0.5 in CON (p < 0.001).\

\f1\b Fasting Glucose:
\f0\b0  HIIT reduced fasting glucose by \uc0\u8722 15.7 \'b1 9.4 mg/dL compared to \u8722 3.2 \'b1 7.1 mg/dL in CON (p < 0.001).\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 \strokec2 Secondary Outcomes\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Anthropometrics:
\f0\b0 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls6\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Waist circumference decreased by \uc0\u8722 4.3 \'b1 2.1 cm in HIIT versus \u8722 0.8 \'b1 1.7 cm in CON (p < 0.01)\
\ls6\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 BMI decreased by \uc0\u8722 1.4 \'b1 0.6 kg/m\'b2 in HIIT versus \u8722 0.3 \'b1 0.5 kg/m\'b2 in CON (p < 0.01)\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Lipid Profile:
\f0\b0 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls7\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Total cholesterol decreased \uc0\u8722 12.9 \'b1 7.8 mg/dL in HIIT versus \u8722 1.5 \'b1 6.2 mg/dL in CON (p < 0.01)\
\ls7\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 LDL decreased \uc0\u8722 10.4 \'b1 6.2 mg/dL in HIIT versus \u8722 0.9 \'b1 5.5 mg/dL in CON (p < 0.01)\
\ls7\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Triglycerides decreased \uc0\u8722 18.7 \'b1 11.5 mg/dL in HIIT versus \u8722 2.4 \'b1 9.8 mg/dL in CON (p < 0.01)\
\ls7\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 HDL increased modestly in HIIT (+3.1 \'b1 1.8 mg/dL) versus CON (+0.5 \'b1 1.2 mg/dL, p < 0.05)\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Blood Pressure:
\f0\b0 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls8\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Systolic BP decreased \uc0\u8722 9.2 \'b1 5.3 mmHg in HIIT versus \u8722 1.2 \'b1 4.5 mmHg in CON (p < 0.01)\
\ls8\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Diastolic BP decreased \uc0\u8722 6.1 \'b1 4.0 mmHg in HIIT versus \u8722 0.8 \'b1 3.7 mmHg in CON (p < 0.01)\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 VO\uc0\u8322 max:
\f0\b0  HIIT increased VO\uc0\u8322 max by 15.2 \'b1 6.1% versus 2.3 \'b1 4.5% in CON (p < 0.001).\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 \strokec2 Adherence and Safety\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 HIIT adherence was 91%. No serious adverse events were reported. Mild musculoskeletal soreness occurred in 7 participants but resolved spontaneously. No hypoglycemia or cardiovascular events were observed.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 \strokec2 Discussion\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 This randomized trial demonstrates that 12-week supervised HIIT significantly improves insulin sensitivity, fasting glucose, body composition, lipid profile, blood pressure, and cardiorespiratory fitness in adults with MetS. The reduction in HOMA-IR (\uc0\u8722 1.8 units) and fasting glucose (\u8722 15 mg/dL) is clinically meaningful and indicates improved metabolic control.\
HIIT produced favorable changes in central adiposity, total and LDL cholesterol, triglycerides, and blood pressure, collectively reducing cardiovascular risk. Improvements in VO\uc0\u8322 max highlight enhanced aerobic capacity, which is independently associated with reduced morbidity and mortality.\
Mechanistically, HIIT enhances skeletal muscle glucose uptake, mitochondrial function, and insulin signaling, while promoting visceral fat reduction and endothelial function. Compared to moderate-intensity continuous exercise, HIIT offers similar or superior metabolic benefits with reduced time commitment, which may improve adherence.\
Limitations include the short intervention duration, single-center design, and lack of dietary monitoring, which may influence metabolic outcomes. Long-term sustainability and effects on clinical endpoints such as incident diabetes and cardiovascular events require further investigation.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 \strokec2 Conclusion\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Twelve-week supervised HIIT significantly improves insulin sensitivity, glycemic control, body composition, lipid profile, blood pressure, and cardiorespiratory fitness in adults with MetS. HIIT is an effective, time-efficient, and safe strategy to reduce cardiometabolic risk and should be considered as part of lifestyle interventions for MetS.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 \strokec2 Word count:
\f0\b0  ~1,530\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \strokec2 I can also 
\f1\b generate realistic tables and figures
\f0\b0  for HOMA-IR, fasting glucose, lipid profiles, blood pressure, and VO\uc0\u8322 max to make it look like a fully formatted journal manuscript.\
Do you want me to do that next?\
}