{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red109\green109\blue109;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c50196\c50196\c50196;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11500\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Below is a 
\f1\b new, original medical scientific study
\f0\b0 , written in a 
\f1\b formal academic style
\f0\b0 , approximately 
\f1\b 1,500 words
\f0\b0 , and structured according to standard biomedical journal conventions. The topic is 
\f1\b the effect of intermittent fasting on metabolic and inflammatory markers in overweight adults
\f0\b0 .\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa321\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs48 \cf0 \strokec2 The Effects of Intermittent Fasting on Metabolic Health and Systemic Inflammation in Overweight Adults: A Randomized Controlled Study\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\fs36 \cf0 Abstract\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Background:
\f0\b0  Overweight and obesity are major public health challenges associated with increased risk of metabolic syndrome, type 2 diabetes mellitus, and cardiovascular disease. Intermittent fasting (IF) has emerged as a popular dietary approach that may improve metabolic health and reduce inflammation. However, clinical evidence regarding its efficacy and safety remains heterogeneous.\

\f1\b Objective:
\f0\b0  To evaluate the effects of a 16:8 intermittent fasting regimen on metabolic parameters and inflammatory markers in overweight adults.\

\f1\b Methods:
\f0\b0  A 24-week randomized controlled trial was conducted involving 180 overweight adults (body mass index [BMI] 25\'9634.9 kg/m\'b2). Participants were randomly assigned to either an intermittent fasting group (16 hours fasting, 8 hours feeding) or a control group following a standard calorie-restricted diet. Primary outcomes included changes in insulin sensitivity and body weight. Secondary outcomes included lipid profile, blood pressure, and inflammatory markers including C-reactive protein (CRP) and interleukin-6 (IL-6).\

\f1\b Results:
\f0\b0  The intermittent fasting group demonstrated significantly greater reductions in body weight, fasting insulin, and homeostatic model assessment of insulin resistance (HOMA-IR) compared to the control group (p < 0.01). CRP and IL-6 levels decreased significantly in the intermittent fasting group but not in controls. No serious adverse events were reported.\

\f1\b Conclusion:
\f0\b0  Intermittent fasting is an effective and safe dietary intervention for improving metabolic health and reducing systemic inflammation in overweight adults. These findings support the potential role of intermittent fasting in obesity-related disease prevention.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 \strokec2 Introduction\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Overweight and obesity have reached epidemic proportions worldwide, contributing significantly to the burden of chronic non-communicable diseases. Excess adiposity is strongly associated with insulin resistance, dyslipidemia, hypertension, and chronic low-grade inflammation, collectively increasing the risk of cardiovascular disease and type 2 diabetes mellitus.\
Conventional dietary strategies for weight management typically emphasize continuous calorie restriction. While effective in some individuals, long-term adherence to such regimens is often poor, and weight regain is common. Consequently, alternative dietary approaches that may improve adherence and metabolic outcomes have garnered increasing attention.\
Intermittent fasting (IF) refers to dietary patterns that cycle between periods of fasting and eating. One of the most commonly practiced forms is the 16:8 regimen, which involves fasting for 16 consecutive hours each day and consuming all calories within an 8-hour window. Proposed mechanisms underlying the benefits of IF include improved insulin sensitivity, enhanced lipolysis, reduced oxidative stress, and modulation of inflammatory pathways.\
Preclinical studies have demonstrated that intermittent fasting can improve metabolic profiles and extend lifespan in animal models. Human studies suggest potential benefits for weight loss, glycemic control, and cardiovascular risk factors, although findings remain inconsistent due to variations in study design, duration, and participant characteristics.\
This randomized controlled study aimed to assess the effects of a 16:8 intermittent fasting regimen on metabolic health and systemic inflammation in overweight adults over a 24-week period.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 \strokec2 Methods\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf0 Study Design and Ethical Approval\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 This was a single-center, randomized, controlled, parallel-group study conducted between February 2023 and August 2024. The study protocol was approved by the institutional ethics committee, and all participants provided written informed consent.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Participants\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 A total of 180 overweight adults aged 25\'9655 years were recruited through outpatient clinics and community advertisements. Inclusion criteria included BMI between 25 and 34.9 kg/m\'b2 and stable body weight over the preceding three months. Exclusion criteria included diabetes mellitus, cardiovascular disease, eating disorders, pregnancy, shift work, and use of medications affecting glucose or lipid metabolism.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Randomization and Interventions\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Participants were randomized in a 1:1 ratio using a computer-generated sequence into one of two groups:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\b \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Intermittent Fasting Group:
\f0\b0  Participants followed a daily 16-hour fasting and 8-hour feeding window, typically eating between 12:00 p.m. and 8:00 p.m., without specific calorie targets but with guidance on balanced nutrition.\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Control Group:
\f0\b0  Participants followed a continuous calorie-restricted diet with a daily energy deficit of approximately 500 kcal, based on standard dietary guidelines.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Both groups received nutritional counseling at baseline and monthly follow-up visits.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Outcome Measures\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa319\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Primary Outcomes\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0
\f0\b0 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Body weight and BMI\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Fasting insulin and HOMA-IR\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa319\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Secondary Outcomes\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0
\f0\b0 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Fasting plasma glucose\
\ls3\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Lipid profile (total cholesterol, LDL, HDL, triglycerides)\
\ls3\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Blood pressure\
\ls3\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Inflammatory markers: high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (CRP) and interleukin-6 (IL-6)\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Assessments were conducted at baseline, 12 weeks, and 24 weeks.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Statistical Analysis\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Analyses were performed using an intention-to-treat approach. Continuous variables were expressed as mean \'b1 standard deviation. Repeated-measures analysis of variance was used to assess changes over time between groups. A p-value < 0.05 was considered statistically significant.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 \strokec2 Results\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf0 Participant Characteristics\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Of the 180 randomized participants, 168 completed the study (intermittent fasting: n = 84; control: n = 84). Baseline demographic and metabolic characteristics were comparable between groups, including age, sex distribution, BMI, and metabolic parameters.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Body Weight and Insulin Sensitivity\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 At 24 weeks, the intermittent fasting group experienced a mean weight reduction of 7.4 \'b1 3.2 kg compared to 4.8 \'b1 2.9 kg in the control group (p < 0.01). BMI decreased significantly in both groups, with a greater reduction observed in the intermittent fasting group.\
Fasting insulin levels decreased by 28% in the intermittent fasting group versus 14% in the control group (p < 0.01). HOMA-IR showed a corresponding improvement, indicating enhanced insulin sensitivity.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Lipid Profile and Blood Pressure\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Significant reductions in triglyceride levels and modest increases in HDL cholesterol were observed in the intermittent fasting group. LDL cholesterol decreased similarly in both groups. Systolic blood pressure decreased by 6.8 mmHg in the intermittent fasting group compared to 3.9 mmHg in controls (p < 0.05).\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Inflammatory Markers\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 CRP levels decreased significantly in the intermittent fasting group (\uc0\u8722 1.6 mg/L) compared to minimal change in the control group (\u8722 0.4 mg/L; p < 0.01). IL-6 levels also decreased significantly in the intermittent fasting group, suggesting reduced systemic inflammation.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Adverse Events\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 No serious adverse events were reported. Mild transient symptoms, including headache and fatigue during the initial weeks, were reported by a minority of participants in the intermittent fasting group.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 \strokec2 Discussion\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 This randomized controlled study demonstrates that a 16:8 intermittent fasting regimen leads to significant improvements in body weight, insulin sensitivity, lipid profile, and inflammatory markers in overweight adults. The observed metabolic benefits exceeded those achieved with standard calorie restriction, suggesting that meal timing may play an important role in metabolic regulation.\
Improved insulin sensitivity may be attributed to prolonged fasting periods that enhance fat oxidation and reduce hepatic glucose production. The reduction in inflammatory markers supports the hypothesis that intermittent fasting may attenuate chronic low-grade inflammation associated with excess adiposity.\
The findings align with emerging evidence suggesting that intermittent fasting is not only effective for weight loss but may also confer cardiometabolic benefits independent of calorie reduction. Improved adherence reported by participants may further contribute to the effectiveness of this dietary approach.\
Limitations of this study include its single-center design and reliance on self-reported dietary adherence. Longer-term studies are needed to assess sustainability, safety, and long-term clinical outcomes.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 \strokec2 Conclusion\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Intermittent fasting is an effective and well-tolerated dietary strategy for improving metabolic health and reducing systemic inflammation in overweight adults. These findings support its potential role as an alternative or adjunct to traditional calorie-restricted diets in obesity management.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 \strokec2 Keywords\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Intermittent fasting; overweight; insulin resistance; inflammation; metabolic health; randomized controlled trial\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \strokec2 If you would like, I can:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls4\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Write this study in a 
\f1\b specific journal format
\f0\b0 \
\ls4\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Add 
\f1\b references, tables, or figures
\f0\b0 \
\ls4\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Change the topic to 
\f1\b any medical specialty
\f0\b0 \
\ls4\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Convert it into a 
\f1\b systematic review or meta-analysis
\f0\b0 \
}