{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red109\green109\blue109;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c50196\c50196\c50196;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Below is a 
\f1\b new, original medical scientific study
\f0\b0 , written in a 
\f1\b formal academic style
\f0\b0 , approximately 
\f1\b 1,500 words
\f0\b0 , and structured according to standard biomedical journal conventions. The topic is 
\f1\b the effect of long-term smartphone use on sleep quality and cardiometabolic risk in young adults
\f0\b0 .\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa321\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs48 \cf0 \strokec2 Long-Term Smartphone Use, Sleep Quality, and Cardiometabolic Risk in Young Adults: A Cross-Sectional Clinical Study\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\fs36 \cf0 Abstract\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Background:
\f0\b0  Smartphone use has become ubiquitous among young adults and is increasingly recognized as a potential contributor to sleep disturbances and adverse health outcomes. Poor sleep quality has been linked to metabolic dysregulation, increased cardiovascular risk, and impaired mental health. However, the relationship between long-term smartphone use, sleep quality, and cardiometabolic risk factors remains insufficiently explored in young adult populations.\

\f1\b Objective:
\f0\b0  To evaluate the association between smartphone use duration, sleep quality, and cardiometabolic risk markers in healthy young adults.\

\f1\b Methods:
\f0\b0  A cross-sectional study was conducted involving 310 adults aged 18\'9635 years. Smartphone usage was assessed using self-reported daily screen time and device usage logs. Sleep quality was evaluated using the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI). Cardiometabolic risk was assessed through anthropometric measurements, blood pressure, fasting glucose, insulin, lipid profile, and high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP). Multivariate regression analyses were performed to assess associations between smartphone use, sleep quality, and cardiometabolic outcomes.\

\f1\b Results:
\f0\b0  Participants with high smartphone use (>6 hours/day) demonstrated significantly poorer sleep quality compared to low-use participants (<3 hours/day) (mean PSQI score: 8.1 vs. 4.9, p < 0.001). High smartphone use was independently associated with higher body mass index, elevated fasting insulin, increased insulin resistance, and higher hs-CRP levels. Sleep quality partially mediated the relationship between smartphone use and cardiometabolic risk markers.\

\f1\b Conclusion:
\f0\b0  Excessive smartphone use is associated with poor sleep quality and early markers of cardiometabolic risk in young adults. Interventions aimed at reducing screen time and improving sleep hygiene may help mitigate long-term health risks in this population.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 \strokec2 Introduction\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Smartphones have become an integral part of daily life, particularly among young adults. These devices facilitate communication, information access, and entertainment; however, concerns have emerged regarding their potential impact on physical and mental health. Prolonged smartphone use has been associated with sedentary behavior, disrupted circadian rhythms, sleep disturbances, and psychological stress.\
Sleep plays a critical role in metabolic regulation, cardiovascular health, and cognitive function. Poor sleep quality and insufficient sleep duration have been linked to obesity, insulin resistance, hypertension, and systemic inflammation. Young adulthood represents a critical period for the establishment of lifestyle habits that influence long-term health trajectories.\
Exposure to smartphone screens, particularly during evening hours, may disrupt sleep through several mechanisms. Blue light emitted from screens suppresses melatonin secretion, delaying sleep onset and altering circadian rhythms. Additionally, cognitive and emotional stimulation associated with smartphone content may increase arousal and impair sleep continuity.\
While previous studies have documented associations between screen time and sleep disturbances, fewer studies have examined downstream cardiometabolic consequences, particularly in otherwise healthy young adults. Understanding these relationships is important for early identification of modifiable risk factors for chronic disease.\
This study aims to investigate the association between long-term smartphone use, sleep quality, and cardiometabolic risk markers in a cohort of young adults.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 \strokec2 Methods\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf0 Study Design and Ethics\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 This cross-sectional clinical study was conducted between April 2023 and March 2024 at a university-affiliated research center. The study protocol was approved by the institutional ethics committee, and all participants provided written informed consent prior to participation.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Participants\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 A total of 310 adults aged 18\'9635 years were recruited through university campuses, social media advertisements, and community outreach programs. Inclusion criteria included ownership and regular use of a smartphone for at least two years. Exclusion criteria included diagnosed sleep disorders, diabetes mellitus, cardiovascular disease, chronic inflammatory conditions, pregnancy, night-shift work, and use of medications affecting sleep or metabolism.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Assessment of Smartphone Use\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Smartphone use was assessed using a combination of self-reported questionnaires and device-generated usage logs when available. Participants reported average daily smartphone use over the preceding three months, including total screen time and usage during the two hours before bedtime.\
Participants were categorized into three groups:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\b \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Low use:
\f0\b0  <3 hours/day\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Moderate use:
\f0\b0  3\'966 hours/day\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 High use:
\f0\b0  >6 hours/day\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Sleep Quality Assessment\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Sleep quality was assessed using the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI), a validated instrument measuring subjective sleep quality, sleep latency, duration, efficiency, disturbances, and daytime dysfunction. A PSQI score >5 indicated poor sleep quality.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Cardiometabolic Assessments\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Participants underwent standardized clinical assessments, including:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Body mass index (BMI)\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Waist circumference\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Resting blood pressure\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Fasting blood glucose and insulin\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Homeostatic Model Assessment of Insulin Resistance (HOMA-IR)\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Lipid profile (total cholesterol, LDL, HDL, triglycerides)\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 High-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP)\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Blood samples were collected after an overnight fast and analyzed in a certified laboratory.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Covariates\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Data were collected on physical activity, dietary habits, alcohol consumption, smoking status, perceived stress, and socioeconomic status. These variables were included as covariates in statistical analyses.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Statistical Analysis\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Continuous variables were expressed as mean \'b1 standard deviation, and categorical variables as percentages. Group comparisons were performed using analysis of variance or chi-square tests as appropriate. Multivariate linear regression analyses were used to assess associations between smartphone use, sleep quality, and cardiometabolic outcomes. Mediation analysis was conducted to evaluate the role of sleep quality. A p-value < 0.05 was considered statistically significant.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 \strokec2 Results\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf0 Participant Characteristics\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Of the 310 participants, 296 completed all assessments. The mean age was 24.9 \'b1 4.3 years, and 57% were female. Forty-two percent of participants were classified as high smartphone users.\
Baseline physical activity and dietary quality were similar across smartphone use groups, although high-use participants reported higher perceived stress levels.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Smartphone Use and Sleep Quality\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Mean PSQI scores increased significantly with higher smartphone use. High-use participants had a mean PSQI score of 8.1 \'b1 2.3, compared to 6.2 \'b1 2.0 in moderate users and 4.9 \'b1 1.8 in low users (p < 0.001). Poor sleep quality (PSQI >5) was observed in 72% of high users versus 28% of low users.\
Evening smartphone use was strongly correlated with prolonged sleep latency and reduced sleep duration.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Cardiometabolic Risk Markers\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 High smartphone users exhibited higher mean BMI and waist circumference compared to low-use participants. Fasting insulin levels and HOMA-IR were significantly elevated in the high-use group, indicating greater insulin resistance.\
High-use participants also demonstrated higher hs-CRP levels, suggesting increased low-grade systemic inflammation. No significant differences were observed in fasting glucose or LDL cholesterol across groups.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Multivariate and Mediation Analyses\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 After adjustment for age, sex, physical activity, diet, and stress, high smartphone use remained independently associated with poor sleep quality, higher insulin resistance, and elevated hs-CRP levels. Mediation analysis indicated that sleep quality accounted for approximately 35% of the association between smartphone use and insulin resistance.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 \strokec2 Discussion\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 This study demonstrates a significant association between excessive smartphone use, poor sleep quality, and early cardiometabolic risk markers in young adults. Participants with higher daily smartphone use exhibited poorer sleep quality and evidence of metabolic dysregulation, even in the absence of overt disease.\
The findings suggest that sleep disruption may serve as a key mechanism linking smartphone use to adverse metabolic outcomes. Blue light exposure, delayed bedtime, and increased cognitive arousal may collectively impair sleep architecture, leading to hormonal and metabolic disturbances such as increased cortisol levels and insulin resistance.\
The observed elevation in hs-CRP among high smartphone users indicates the presence of low-grade inflammation, which has been implicated in the pathogenesis of cardiovascular disease and metabolic syndrome. Although young adults typically have low absolute cardiometabolic risk, early subclinical changes may have long-term consequences if unhealthy behaviors persist.\
Strengths of this study include comprehensive assessment of sleep and metabolic markers and adjustment for multiple lifestyle factors. Limitations include the cross-sectional design, reliance on self-reported smartphone use, and inability to establish causality.\
Longitudinal studies are needed to determine whether reducing smartphone use and improving sleep hygiene can reverse metabolic abnormalities and reduce future cardiometabolic risk.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 \strokec2 Conclusion\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Excessive smartphone use is associated with poor sleep quality and early indicators of cardiometabolic risk in young adults. These findings highlight the importance of promoting healthy digital habits and sleep hygiene as part of preventive health strategies in younger populations.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 \strokec2 Keywords\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Smartphone use; sleep quality; cardiometabolic risk; insulin resistance; inflammation; young adults\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \strokec2 If you\'92d like, I can:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Change the topic to 
\f1\b any medical specialty
\f0\b0 \
\ls3\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Rewrite this as a 
\f1\b randomized intervention study
\f0\b0 \
\ls3\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Add 
\f1\b references, tables, or figures
\f0\b0 \
\ls3\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Adjust it to meet 
\f1\b journal submission requirements
\f0\b0 \
}