{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 # **A Randomized, Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Trial to Evaluate the Efficacy and Safety of SER-109 Versus Fecal Microbiota Transplantation (FMT) for the Prevention of Recurrent *Clostridioides difficile* Infection in High-Risk Patients**\
\
**Study Protocol**\
\
**Protocol Version:** 2.1 | **Date:** 25 October 2023 | **IRB Approval Number:** HM-2023-0047\
\
### **1.0 ABSTRACT**\
\
**Background:** *Clostridioides difficile* infection (CDI) is a major nosocomial and community-acquired cause of debilitating and potentially fatal diarrhea. Recurrent CDI (rCDI), defined as a new episode within 8 weeks of successful treatment of a prior episode, occurs in 15-35% of patients and creates a vicious cycle of antibiotic use, gut dysbiosis, and further recurrence. Standard-of-care antibiotics like vancomycin and fidaxomicin do not address the underlying dysbiosis. Fecal Microbiota Transplantation (FMT) has demonstrated high efficacy but faces logistical, safety, and regulatory hurdles. SER-109 is an investigational, oral, microbiome-based therapeutic composed of purified Firmicutes spores derived from healthy donor stool. While promising, its comparative efficacy and safety against FMT in a high-risk population with at least one prior recurrence remain undefined.\
\
**Objective:** To determine whether SER-109 is non-inferior to FMT in preventing rCDI within 10 weeks of treatment in patients with a primary episode or first recurrence of CDI and specific high-risk factors.\
\
**Methods:** This is a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, double-dummy, active-controlled, non-inferiority trial. We will enroll 220 adult participants (\uc0\u8805 18 years) with a confirmed CDI episode (primary or first recurrence) and at least one high-risk factor for recurrence (age \u8805 65, severe CDI, immunocompromised status, or prior hospitalization). Following a 10-14 day course of standard-of-care antibiotics (vancomycin or fidaxomicin), participants will be randomized 1:1 to receive either: 1) **Oral SER-109 capsules + sham colonoscopy infusion of saline,** or 2) **Oral placebo capsules + colonoscopic administration of FMT.** The primary endpoint is the proportion of participants with recurrent CDI (defined as renewed diarrhea with a positive stool toxin test) within 10 weeks of treatment. Secondary endpoints include sustained clinical cure at 24 weeks, time to recurrence, changes in gut microbiome composition (via shotgun metagenomic sequencing), health-related quality of life (using the Cdiff32 questionnaire), and safety assessments, including serious adverse events (SAEs) and treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs). The non-inferiority margin is set at 12.5%.\
\
**Significance:** This study will provide the first head-to-head, blinded comparison of a standardized, spore-based biotherapeutic against the current "gold standard" of whole-stool FMT. It aims to establish SER-109 as a more scalable, safer, and equally effective alternative, potentially reshaping the therapeutic paradigm for rCDI prevention.\
\
**Expected Results:** We hypothesize that SER-109 will be non-inferior to FMT in preventing rCDI at 10 weeks, with a comparable safety profile and superior patient acceptance. Both interventions will lead to significant and durable engraftment of diverse gut microbiota compared to baseline dysbiosis.\
\
### **2.0 INTRODUCTION**\
\
*Clostridioides difficile* infection represents a critical public health threat, responsible for nearly half a million infections and approximately 29,000 deaths annually in the United States alone. The pathogenesis of CDI is intrinsically linked to a disruption of the healthy colonic microbiome (dysbiosis), typically induced by broad-spectrum antibiotics. This loss of microbial diversity and protective function creates an ecological niche for *C. difficile* spores to germinate, proliferate, and produce toxins A and B, leading to a spectrum of disease from mild diarrhea to fulminant colitis, toxic megacolon, and death.\
\
The central challenge in CDI management is recurrence. With each recurrence, the risk of further episodes escalates, creating a devastating cycle of illness, hospitalization, and reduced quality of life. The economic burden is immense, with attributable costs exceeding $6 billion annually in the US. While antibiotics like vancomycin are effective for treating an acute episode, they perpetuate dysbiosis and fail to reduce the risk of future recurrences. Fidaxomicin, a more gut-selective antibiotic, offers a modest reduction in recurrence risk but remains costly and still contributes to dysbiosis.\
\
Fecal Microbiota Transplantation has emerged as a remarkably effective therapy for rCDI, with success rates >85% reported in numerous studies. By restoring a healthy, diverse microbial community, FMT addresses the root cause of susceptibility. However, significant limitations impede its widespread adoption: 1) **Logistical complexity:** Requires rigorous donor screening, stool processing, and specialized administration (often via colonoscopy); 2) **Safety concerns:** Risk of pathogen transmission (bacterial, viral, fungal) despite screening, and rare but serious adverse events linked to the transfer of a complex, uncharacterized biological substance; 3) **Patient and physician acceptance:** The "yuck factor" and invasiveness of administration reduce uptake; 4) **Regulatory status:** Lack of standardization and classification as a drug-biologic hybrid complicate approval and commercialization.\
\
These limitations have driven the development of defined, reproducible microbiome therapeutics. SER-109 is a leading candidate in this field. It is manufactured from carefully screened donor stool that undergoes ethanol processing to eliminate vegetative bacteria, viruses, and fungi, leaving a concentrated preparation of bacterial spores, predominantly from the Firmicutes phylum. These spores are theorized to germinate in the colon and re-establish a protective ecological barrier against *C. difficile*. Phase II and III trials have shown promise, but its performance relative to the benchmark of FMT has not been rigorously tested in a controlled, blinded trial.\
\
**Rationale and Knowledge Gap:** Current guidelines suggest FMT for second or subsequent recurrences. However, patients with a first recurrence and specific high-risk features have a >40% chance of developing further episodes. Early intervention with a microbiome restorative therapy in this high-risk population could break the cycle of recurrence before it becomes entrenched. A direct comparison between a standardized, purified product (SER-109) and whole-stool FMT is crucial to determine if efficacy is preserved while improving safety and scalability. This study is designed to fill this pivotal evidence gap.\
\
### **3.0 METHODS**\
\
**3.1 Study Design:** Multicenter, randomized, double-blind, double-dummy, active-controlled, non-inferiority trial conducted at approximately 25 academic and community hospitals across the United States and European Union.\
\
**3.2 Participants:**\
*   **Inclusion Criteria:**\
    *   Adults \uc0\u8805 18 years.\
    *   Documented CDI (primary episode or first recurrence) defined as \uc0\u8805 3 unformed stools per 24 hours and a positive stool test for *C. difficile* toxin by FDA-cleared PCR or EIA.\
    *   Completion of a 10-14 day course of standard-of-care oral antibiotics (vancomycin or fidaxomicin) with resolution of diarrhea (<3 unformed stools/day for 2 consecutive days).\
    *   At least **ONE** of the following high-risk factors for recurrence: age \uc0\u8805 65 years; severe/fulminant index CDI per IDSA guidelines; immunocompromised status (e.g., solid organ transplant, hematologic malignancy, current immunosuppressive therapy); hospitalization within the past 90 days.\
\
*   **Exclusion Criteria:**\
    *   More than one prior CDI recurrence in the past 6 months.\
    *   Requiring ongoing systemic antibiotics for other infections.\
    *   History of inflammatory bowel disease (Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis).\
    *   Life expectancy <12 weeks.\
    *   Known hypersensitivity to any study product component.\
    *   Pregnancy or breastfeeding.\
\
**3.3 Randomization and Blinding:** After completing antibiotic therapy and confirming symptom resolution, eligible participants will be centrally randomized 1:1 via an interactive web response system (IWRS), stratified by study site and number of prior episodes (primary vs. first recurrence). The double-dummy design ensures blinding: all participants will undergo a colonoscopy and will take oral capsules. For Group A (SER-109), the colonoscopy will involve infusion of sterile saline, and the oral capsules will be active SER-109. For Group B (FMT), the colonoscopy will involve infusion of donor FMT preparation (\uc0\u8805 50g donor stool in 500mL normal saline), and the oral capsules will be matched placebo. The endoscopist performing the infusion will be unblinded but will have no further role in patient assessment. All other investigators, study staff, and participants will remain blinded until database lock.\
\
**3.4 Interventions:**\
1.  **SER-109 Arm:** Participants will receive 4 capsules of SER-109 orally, once daily for 3 consecutive days. Each capsule contains \uc0\u8805 1x10^9 spores. On Day 1, capsules will be administered 1-2 hours after the sham colonoscopy.\
2.  **FMT Arm:** Participants will undergo standard colonoscopic preparation and procedure. During colonoscopy, approximately 500mL of donor FMT suspension (prepared per site-specific, FDA-enforced Investigational New Drug [IND] protocols with rigorous donor screening) will be infused into the terminal ileum/cecum. Participants will also take 4 matched placebo capsules orally for 3 days.\
\
**3.5 Outcome Measures:**\
*   **Primary Efficacy Endpoint:** Proportion of participants with recurrent CDI within 10 weeks (70 days) after treatment administration. Recurrence is strictly defined as the re-occurrence of \uc0\u8805 3 unformed stools per 24 hours for 2 consecutive days, AND a positive stool test for *C. difficile* toxin, confirmed by a blinded Central Adjudication Committee.\
*   **Key Secondary Endpoints:**\
    *   Sustained clinical cure at 24 weeks (no recurrence from Day 1 to Week 24).\
    *   Time to recurrence (Kaplan-Meier analysis).\
    *   Change in gut microbiome alpha-diversity (Shannon Index) and engraftment of donor-specific taxa from baseline to Weeks 4, 10, and 24 (via shotgun metagenomic sequencing on serial stool samples).\
    *   Change in health-related quality of life from baseline to Weeks 10 and 24 using the validated Cdiff32 instrument.\
*   **Safety Endpoints:**\
    *   Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs) and Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), including those related to colonoscopy.\
    *   Specific monitoring for bacteremia, infections, and unexpected immune or inflammatory reactions.\
    *   Clinical laboratory assessments (hematology, chemistry).\
\
**3.6 Statistical Analysis:**\
The sample size of 220 participants (110 per arm) provides 90% power to demonstrate non-inferiority of SER-109 to FMT, assuming a recurrence rate of 20% in both arms, a one-sided alpha of 0.025, and a non-inferiority margin of 12.5%. This margin was chosen based on clinical consensus and prior FDA discussions regarding microbiome therapeutics.\
\
The primary analysis will be conducted on the Modified Intent-to-Treat (mITT) population, which includes all randomized participants who receive any amount of study treatment. Non-inferiority will be declared if the upper bound of the two-sided 95% confidence interval for the difference in recurrence rates (SER-109 minus FMT) is less than 12.5%. A supportive analysis will be performed on the Per-Protocol population.\
\
Secondary endpoints will be analyzed using appropriate statistical methods: time-to-event analysis with log-rank test, linear mixed models for microbiome data, and paired t-tests for quality-of-life scores. All statistical tests for secondary endpoints will be two-sided with alpha=0.05, with hierarchical testing to control for Type I error.\
\
### **4.0 EXPECTED RESULTS AND DISCUSSION**\
\
**4.1 Anticipated Findings:** We hypothesize that SER-109 will meet the pre-specified non-inferiority criterion, with recurrence rates of approximately 18-22% in both arms at 10 weeks. We expect both treatments to induce a significant and rapid increase in gut microbiome diversity, with FMT showing greater initial taxonomic richness due to the transfer of a full community, and SER-109 showing more targeted engraftment of Firmicutes spore-forming species. Both interventions should lead to substantial and comparable improvements in quality-of-life scores.\
\
We anticipate the safety profile of SER-109 to be favorable. The FMT arm may have a higher incidence of procedure-related adverse events (e.g., sedation complications, perforation risk <0.1%) and transient post-infusion symptoms (bloating, cramping). Both arms will be monitored for the theoretical risk of long-term ecological or metabolic consequences, though this is unlikely to manifest within the 24-week study period.\
\
**4.2 Potential Mechanisms and Implications:** The efficacy of both interventions supports the "barrier" or "colonization resistance" hypothesis, wherein a diverse microbiota outcompetes *C. difficile* for nutrients and produces inhibitory metabolites (e.g., secondary bile acids, antimicrobial peptides). SER-109's spore-based approach may represent a more refined strategy, delivering key functional taxa capable of reconstituting this protective environment. A key mechanistic question this study may help answer is whether the full complexity of donor stool is necessary for efficacy, or if a defined consortium of spore-formers is sufficient.\
\
**Clinical Implications:** Should SER-109 prove non-inferior, it would represent a paradigm shift. It offers a standardized, quality-controlled, orally administered, and scalable alternative to FMT. This could move microbiome restoration earlier in the treatment algorithm, benefiting high-risk patients after their first recurrence and preventing significant morbidity. It also alleviates the donor-screening and stool-banking burdens on healthcare institutions.\
\
**4.3 Limitations:** This study has several limitations. First, the 24-week follow-up, while longer than many CDI trials, cannot assess very long-term safety or durability beyond six months. Second, the strict inclusion criteria (high-risk first recurrence) may limit generalizability to patients with multiple recurrences, though this is the population most in need of a new preventive strategy. Third, the FMT preparation, while standardized per site IND, may have inter-site variability in donor material and processing, though this reflects current "real-world" practice. Finally, the requirement for colonoscopy in the FMT arm (and sham in the SER-109 arm) introduces invasiveness and cost; future studies comparing oral SER-109 to oral encapsulated FMT would be valuable.\
\
### **5.0 ETHICS, DISSEMINATION, AND TIMELINE**\
\
**Ethics:** The study will be conducted in full conformity with the Declaration of Helsinki, ICH-GCP guidelines, and applicable national regulations. Approval from the central or local IRB/ethics committee at each site is mandatory before initiation. Written informed consent will be obtained from all participants.\
\
**Dissemination:** Results will be submitted for publication in a major peer-reviewed medical journal (e.g., *The New England Journal of Medicine*, *The Lancet*) regardless of outcome. Key findings will be presented at major international infectious disease and gastroenterology conferences. A plain-language summary will be provided to all participants.\
\
**Timeline:**\
*   **Months 1-6:** Site initiation and regulatory approvals.\
*   **Months 7-24:** Participant enrollment and treatment phase.\
*   **Months 25-30:** Follow-up completion, database lock, and statistical analysis.\
*   **Months 31-33:** Manuscript preparation and submission.\
\
### **6.0 CONCLUSION**\
\
This randomized controlled trial is the first to directly compare a next-generation, purified microbiome therapeutic (SER-109) with the current benchmark of whole-stool FMT for preventing rCDI in a high-risk population. By employing a rigorous double-blind, double-dummy design, it aims to provide definitive evidence on comparative efficacy, safety, and patient-centered outcomes. The results have the potential to validate a new class of standardized, scalable biological drugs for microbiome restoration, offering a safer and more accessible solution to break the debilitating cycle of recurrent *Clostridioides difficile* infection.\
\
---\
**Funding Source:** This study is funded by an NIH U01 cooperative agreement grant (U01AI152087) and includes in-kind product support from Seres Therapeutics (SER-109) and open-label FMT from the OpenBiome nonprofit stool bank.\
\
**Conflicts of Interest:** All principal investigators have declared any potential conflicts of interest to the IRB and study sponsor. The manuscript will reflect full disclosure.\
\
**Protocol Amendments:** Any amendments will be submitted for IRB/regulatory approval prior to implementation.}