{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 # **A Phase III, Randomized, Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Trial to Evaluate the Efficacy and Safety of LYT-200, a Novel Anti-Galectin-9 Monoclonal Antibody, in Combination with Chemotherapy in Patients with Metastatic Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma**\
\
**Protocol ID:** GALAPAGOS-1 | **Version:** 3.0 | **Date:** October 27, 2023\
\
---\
\
## **1.0 ABSTRACT**\
\
**Background:** Metastatic pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (mPDAC) remains a disease of profound unmet need, with a 5-year survival rate below 3%. The dense, immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment (TME) is a hallmark of PDAC and a major barrier to treatment efficacy. Galectin-9 (Gal-9), a \uc0\u946 -galactoside-binding lectin, is a pivotal immunosuppressive molecule overexpressed in PDAC. It drives T-cell exhaustion and apoptosis via interaction with its receptor TIM-3 on immune cells, promotes the recruitment and function of myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) and regulatory T-cells (Tregs), and contributes to fibrosis via activation of cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs). LYT-200 is a fully human IgG4 monoclonal antibody that potently and selectively neutralizes extracellular Gal-9, aiming to reverse immunosuppression and enhance chemotherapy efficacy.\
\
**Objective:** To assess the efficacy and safety of LYT-200 combined with gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel (Gem/Nab-P) versus placebo plus Gem/Nab-P as first-line therapy in patients with mPDAC.\
\
**Methods:** This is a global, multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase III study. We will enroll 580 patients with previously untreated, histologically confirmed mPDAC. Key eligibility includes ECOG PS 0-1, adequate organ function, and measurable disease per RECIST v1.1. Patients will be stratified by liver metastasis (presence/absence) and region (North America/Europe/Asia) and randomized 1:1 to: **Arm A (Experimental):** LYT-200 (1200 mg IV Q2W) + Gem/Nab-P (standard dose); **Arm B (Control):** Placebo + Gem/Nab-P. Treatment continues until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or withdrawal. The primary endpoint is **Overall Survival (OS)**. Key secondary endpoints include **Progression-Free Survival (PFS)** per RECIST v1.1, **Objective Response Rate (ORR)**, **Disease Control Rate (DCR)**, safety, and patient-reported outcomes (EORTC QLQ-C30 & PAN26). An extensive translational medicine program will evaluate pharmacodynamic effects on immune subsets, serum Gal-9/TIM-3 axis biomarkers, and tumor tissue-based biomarkers.\
\
**Hypothesis:** The addition of LYT-200 to standard chemotherapy will significantly improve OS by modulating the immunosuppressive TME, reinvigorating anti-tumor immunity, and thereby enhancing the durability of chemotherapy response.\
\
---\
\
## **2.0 INTRODUCTION & RATIONALE**\
\
The management of mPDAC has seen incremental progress with multi-agent chemotherapy regimens like FOLFIRINOX and Gem/Nab-P, yet median overall survival remains approximately 8-12 months. The profound therapeutic resistance of PDAC stems not only from its genetic complexity but also from its unique stromal architecture\'97a fibrotic, hypoxic, and profoundly immunosuppressive TME that excludes cytotoxic T-cells and fosters tumor progression.\
\
Within this TME, Galectin-9 has emerged as a master regulator of immunosuppression. Gal-9 is a tandem-repeat type galectin secreted by tumor cells, CAFs, and suppressive immune cells in response to inflammatory signals. Its pathological roles in PDAC are multifaceted:\
1.  **T-cell Exhaustion and Apoptosis:** Gal-9 is a high-affinity ligand for TIM-3, an immune checkpoint receptor expressed on exhausted CD8+ and CD4+ T-cells, Th1 cells, and Tregs. Gal-9/TIM-3 interaction delivers a potent inhibitory signal, inducing apoptosis in Th1 and cytotoxic T-cells while promoting the suppressive function of Tregs.\
2.  **Myeloid Cell Polarization:** Gal-9 drives the differentiation and recruitment of MDSCs and M2-like tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs), key orchestrators of the suppressive niche.\
3.  **Stromal Activation:** Gal-9 directly activates pancreatic stellate cells into pro-fibrotic CAFs, contributing to the desmoplastic reaction that creates a physical and biochemical barrier to drug delivery and immune infiltration.\
4.  **Metastatic Niche Formation:** Preclinical evidence suggests Gal-9 promotes epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and prepares pre-metastatic niches in the liver, the most common site of PDAC metastasis.\
\
Thus, Gal-9 acts as a critical molecular node linking fibrosis, immune evasion, and metastasis. Its expression correlates with poor prognosis, advanced stage, and chemotherapy resistance in PDAC. Neutralizing Gal-9 presents a compelling strategy to simultaneously dismantle multiple pillars of the hostile TME.\
\
**LYT-200:** LYT-200 is a high-affinity, neutralizing monoclonal antibody that binds to the carbohydrate recognition domains of Gal-9, preventing its interaction with TIM-3 and other glycoprotein receptors. Preclinical PDAC models demonstrate that LYT-200 monotherapy reduces fibrosis, decreases MDSC/Treg infiltration, increases activated CD8+ T-cell tumor infiltration, and synergizes with chemotherapy to suppress tumor growth and metastasis.\
\
**Unmet Need and Rationale:** Despite the success of immunotherapy in other cancers, PDAC remains largely refractory to single-agent checkpoint blockade. The TME must first be "reprogrammed" from immunosuppressive to permissive. Targeting Gal-9 offers a unique upstream approach to achieve this reprogramming. A Phase Ib/II study of LYT-200 + Gem/Nab-P in mPDAC showed promising signals of efficacy with a manageable safety profile, including deepened responses and prolonged disease control in a subset of patients. This Phase III trial is designed to definitively test the hypothesis that Gal-9 inhibition can improve survival outcomes in combination with standard first-line chemotherapy, potentially establishing a new standard of care and validating a novel therapeutic target.\
\
---\
\
## **3.0 METHODS**\
\
**3.1 Study Design:** Global, multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, two-arm, Phase III superiority trial.\
\
**3.2 Participants:** 580 patients will be enrolled at approximately 150 sites worldwide.\
*   **Inclusion Criteria:**\
    *   Age \uc0\u8805 18 years.\
    *   Histologically/cytologically confirmed metastatic PDAC.\
    *   No prior systemic therapy for metastatic disease (adjuvant/neoadjuvant therapy completed >6 months prior to recurrence is allowed).\
    *   Measurable disease per RECIST v1.1.\
    *   ECOG PS 0-1.\
    *   Adequate hematologic, hepatic, and renal function.\
*   **Exclusion Criteria:**\
    *   Active autoimmune disease requiring systemic immunosuppression (>10 mg/day prednisone equivalent).\
    *   Known CNS metastases.\
    *   Uncontrolled intercurrent illness (e.g., active infection, significant cardiac disease).\
    *   History of severe hypersensitivity to monoclonal antibodies or chemotherapeutic agents.\
\
**3.3 Randomization and Blinding:** Patients will be randomized 1:1 via an IWRS. Stratification factors: **1) Presence of Liver Metastases** (Yes vs. No); **2) Geographic Region** (North America, Europe, Asia). LYT-200 and placebo are provided in identical vials. The unblinded pharmacist/designee prepares the infusion, which is administered by a blinded nurse. Patients, investigators, study staff, and the sponsor\'92s clinical team remain blinded.\
\
**3.4 Study Interventions:**\
All patients receive **Gemcitabine (1000 mg/m\'b2)** and **Nab-paclitaxel (125 mg/m\'b2)** on Days 1, 8, and 15 of a 28-day cycle.\
*   **Arm A (Experimental):** LYT-200, 1200 mg administered via IV infusion over 60 minutes on Day 1 and Day 15 of each 28-day cycle (Q2W schedule), starting concurrently with Cycle 1.\
*   **Arm B (Control):** Matching placebo administered on the identical schedule.\
\
Treatment continues until radiographic disease progression (per blinded independent central review, BICR), unacceptable toxicity, or patient withdrawal. Patients discontinuing chemotherapy due to toxicity may, per investigator discretion, continue LYT-200/placebo as monotherapy if deriving clinical benefit.\
\
**3.5 Endpoints:**\
*   **Primary Endpoint:** **Overall Survival (OS)**, defined as time from randomization to death from any cause.\
*   **Key Secondary Endpoints (tested in hierarchical order):**\
    1.  **Progression-Free Survival (PFS)** per RECIST v1.1 as assessed by BICR.\
    2.  **Objective Response Rate (ORR)** per RECIST v1.1 (BICR).\
    3.  **Disease Control Rate (DCR)** at 16 weeks (CR+PR+SD).\
    4.  **Safety and Tolerability:** Incidence and severity of AEs (CTCAE v5.0), with special attention to immune-related AEs and infusion-related reactions.\
*   **Other Secondary Endpoints:**\
    *   Duration of Response (DoR).\
    *   Patient-reported outcomes and quality of life (EORTC QLQ-C30 and PAN26).\
    *   Time to deterioration of performance status.\
*   **Exploratory/Translational Endpoints:**\
    *   **Pharmacodynamic Biomarkers:** Serial changes in peripheral immune cell subsets (via high-dimensional flow cytometry: CD8+ TIM-3+ PD-1+ exhausted T-cells, Tregs, monocytic/granulocytic MDSCs).\
    *   **Soluble Biomarkers:** Serum levels of Gal-9, soluble TIM-3, and other cytokines/chemokines (e.g., IL-10, TGF-\uc0\u946 , CXCL5).\
    *   **Tumor Tissue Biomarkers (Baseline):** Multiplex immunofluorescence (mIF) on archival/on-study biopsies to assess baseline Gal-9 expression patterns (tumor vs. stroma), immune contexture (CD8+/FoxP3+ ratio, CD163+ M2 macrophages), and fibrosis (\uc0\u945 -SMA, collagen). Correlation with clinical outcomes.\
    *   **Circulating Tumor DNA (ctDNA):** Dynamics of ctDNA (KRAS mutational burden) and correlation with treatment response and survival.\
\
**3.6 Statistical Analysis:**\
The sample size of 580 patients (290 per arm) provides 90% power to detect a Hazard Ratio (HR) of 0.75 for OS, using a two-sided stratified log-rank test at \uc0\u945 =0.05. This assumes a median OS of 11 months in the control arm and 14.7 months in the experimental arm, with 30 months of accrual and 18 months of follow-up, requiring 435 observed death events.\
\
**Primary Analysis:** OS will be compared between arms using a **stratified log-rank test**, stratified by the randomization factors. The **Cox proportional hazards model** will be used to estimate the HR and 95% CI. The primary analysis will be performed on the **Intent-to-Treat (ITT)** population. A pre-planned **interim analysis for efficacy and futility** will be conducted by an Independent Data Monitoring Committee (IDMC) after approximately 50% of OS events have occurred, using an O\'92Brien-Fleming alpha-spending function.\
\
**Secondary Endpoints:** PFS, ORR, and DCR will be analyzed similarly. Safety will be summarized descriptively. Translational analyses will be hypothesis-generating, using appropriate statistical tests to compare biomarker levels between arms and correlate with response.\
\
---\
\
## **4.0 EXPECTED RESULTS AND DISCUSSION**\
\
**4.1 Anticipated Clinical Outcomes:** We hypothesize that the addition of LYT-200 will lead to a statistically significant improvement in OS, with an estimated HR of 0.70-0.80. We predict the PFS benefit will be more pronounced and emerge earlier, reflecting the potential of TME modulation to delay acquired chemotherapy resistance. We anticipate a modest but meaningful increase in ORR, with a more significant improvement in DCR, consistent with an agent that may "stabilize" the disease by altering the tumor ecosystem. The safety profile is expected to be manageable, dominated by chemotherapy-related toxicities. LYT-200-specific AEs may include mild, manageable infusion-related reactions and potential low-grade immune-mediated events (e.g., rash, thyroiditis), but not the severe colitis or pneumonitis associated with PD-1/CTLA-4 blockade, given Gal-9\'92s more restricted role in T-cell exhaustion.\
\
**4.2 Anticipated Translational Outcomes:**\
*   **Pharmacodynamics:** Patients in the LYT-200 arm should show a significant reduction in peripheral exhausted (TIM-3+) CD8+ T-cells and a decrease in circulating MDSCs, coupled with a rise in serum Gal-9 levels (due to antibody binding and stabilization), confirming target engagement.\
*   **Biomarkers of Response:** We hypothesize that patients with high baseline Gal-9 expression in tumor stroma, high levels of circulating MDSCs, or a "TIM-3-high" exhausted T-cell phenotype in blood will derive the greatest benefit from LYT-200. A decrease in ctDNA KRAS mutant allele frequency early in treatment may serve as a sensitive pharmacodynamic marker of efficacy.\
\
**4.3 Potential Clinical Impact and Limitations:**\
A positive trial would establish Gal-9 inhibition as a novel therapeutic modality in oncology and provide a new first-line option for mPDAC. It would validate the strategy of targeting the TME's immunosuppressive "infrastructure" rather than just tumor cells or single checkpoint pathways. LYT-200's mechanism also creates a strong rationale for future combinations with T-cell-directed immunotherapies (e.g., anti-PD-1) in a sequential or concurrent manner, potentially unlocking sensitivity to checkpoint blockade in PDAC.\
\
**Limitations:**\
1.  **Patient Selection:** The "all-comer" design may dilute the treatment effect if only a biomarker-defined subset benefits. The extensive translational plan is designed to address this *post-hoc*.\
2.  **Chemotherapy Backbone:** While Gem/Nab-P is a global standard, some regions favor FOLFIRINOX. The choice was made for tolerability and combination feasibility.\
3.  **Mechanistic Complexity:** The pleiotropic effects of Gal-9 make it challenging to pinpoint the dominant mechanism of action (immune vs. anti-fibrotic) in patients.\
4.  **Treatment Beyond Progression:** The protocol allows LYT-200 monotherapy continuation, which, while clinically pragmatic, may complicate the interpretation of PFS and post-progression survival.\
\
---\
\
## **5.0 ETHICS, ADMINISTRATION, AND DISSEMINATION**\
\
**Ethical Conduct:** The study will be conducted in accordance with ICH-GCP, the Declaration of Helsinki, and applicable local regulations. Approval from independent ethics committees/institutional review boards is mandatory. Written informed consent is required from all participants.\
\
**Governance:** An independent **IDMC** will review safety and efficacy data at intervals. An independent **Clinical Endpoint Committee (CEC)** will adjudicate progression events and cause of death for the primary and key secondary endpoints.\
\
**Data Management:** Data will be captured electronically. Source data verification and risk-based monitoring will be employed.\
\
**Dissemination:** Results will be submitted for publication in a major peer-reviewed medical journal, irrespective of outcome. Findings will be presented at international oncology conferences. A lay summary will be provided to participants.\
\
**Timeline:**\
*   **Years 1-2.5:** Site activation and patient enrollment.\
*   **Year 3:** Completion of enrollment.\
*   **Years 3-5:** Treatment, follow-up, interim analysis.\
*   **Year 5.5:** Final analysis and primary manuscript submission.\
\
---\
\
## **6.0 CONCLUSION**\
\
The GALAPAGOS-1 trial is a pivotal study evaluating a first-in-class therapy targeting a master regulator of the pancreatic cancer microenvironment. By neutralizing Galectin-9, LYT-200 aims to dismantle the immunosuppressive and fibrotic barriers that characterize PDAC, thereby potentiating standard chemotherapy and offering a new path to improve survival for patients with this lethal disease. Success in this trial would not only provide a much-needed new therapeutic option but would also fundamentally advance our understanding of how to therapeutically reprogram the pancreatic cancer microenvironment, opening new avenues for combination strategies.}