{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 # **A Randomized, Triple-Blind, Phase III Trial Assessing the Efficacy of Transcranial Direct Current Stimulation (tDCS) Combined with Cognitive Rehabilitation versus Cognitive Rehabilitation Alone on Functional Recovery in Patients with Post-Stroke Vascular Cognitive Impairment**\
\
**Protocol ID:** NEURORESTORE-03 | **Version:** 3.0\
\
---\
\
### **1.0 ABSTRACT**\
\
**Background:** Vascular Cognitive Impairment (VCI) is a pervasive and debilitating consequence of stroke, affecting up to 60% of survivors. It encompasses a spectrum from mild deficits to full dementia, severely impacting independence, quality of life, and caregiver burden. While cognitive rehabilitation (CR) offers modest benefits, its effects are often limited and not universally sustained. Transcranial Direct Current Stimulation (tDCS), a non-invasive brain stimulation technique, modulates cortical excitability and has shown promise in enhancing neuroplasticity. Its potential as an adjunct to CR to create synergistic, durable improvements in VCI remains underexplored in large-scale, methodologically rigorous trials.\
\
**Objective:** To evaluate the superiority of a combined intervention of anodal tDCS applied to the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) concurrently with standard CR, compared to sham tDCS with CR, on functional cognitive outcomes in patients with post-stroke VCI.\
\
**Methods:** This is a multicenter, randomized, triple-blind, sham-controlled, parallel-group Phase III trial. We will enroll 280 participants (aged 50-85) with a confirmed ischemic or hemorrhagic stroke 3-12 months prior, and a diagnosis of mild or moderate VCI (Montreal Cognitive Assessment [MoCA] score 18-25). Participants will be stratified by stroke type and severity and randomized 1:1 to: 1) **Active tDCS + CR:** 20 minutes of 2mA anodal stimulation over the left DLPFC (F3 per EEG 10-20 system) during 60-minute, computerized CR sessions; or 2) **Sham tDCS + CR:** Identical setup with a 30-second ramp-up/down to mimic sensation, then no sustained current. Both groups will undergo 15 sessions over 5 weeks. The primary outcome is the change from baseline to 1-week post-intervention on the **Neuropsychological Test Battery (NTB) composite z-score**, a sensitive measure of global cognition. Secondary outcomes include changes in specific cognitive domains (executive function, processing speed, memory), functional independence (Functional Independence Measure [FIM]-Cognitive), patient-reported quality of life (Stroke Impact Scale), caregiver burden (Zarit Burden Interview), and structural/functional MRI metrics (resting-state connectivity, cortical thickness in prefrontal networks). Safety and tolerability will be monitored.\
\
**Primary Hypothesis:** The combined active tDCS+CR group will demonstrate a statistically and clinically significant greater improvement in the NTB composite z-score compared to the sham+CR group at the primary endpoint.\
\
**Trial Registration:** ClinicalTrials.gov, Identifier: NCT[XXXXXXX]\
\
---\
\
### **2.0 INTRODUCTION & RATIONALE**\
\
Stroke is a leading cause of adult disability worldwide. Beyond motor and sensory deficits, the cognitive sequelae\'97collectively termed Vascular Cognitive Impairment\'97constitute a major determinant of long-term outcome. VCI is heterogenous, affecting executive functions, processing speed, attention, and memory, and is a potent predictor of institutionalization, mortality, and reduced quality of life. The pathophysiology involves ischemic injury to strategic cortical-subcortical networks, particularly fronto-striatal and fronto-parietal circuits, leading to disrupted connectivity and adaptive neuroplasticity.\
\
Cognitive Rehabilitation is the standard non-pharmacological approach, employing repetitive, graded tasks to promote compensatory strategies and cognitive skills. Systematic reviews, however, highlight its limitations: effect sizes are often small, transfer to real-world activities (ecological validity) is inconsistent, and neural mechanisms of action are poorly understood. There is a pressing need for interventions that directly target and enhance the brain's inherent capacity for repair\'97its neuroplasticity.\
\
Transcranial Direct Current Stimulation is a safe, portable, and low-cost neuromodulation technique. By applying a weak, constant current through scalp electrodes, it induces subthreshold shifts in neuronal membrane potentials. Anodal stimulation over a target region (e.g., the left DLPFC, a hub for executive control and working memory) increases cortical excitability and facilitates long-term potentiation (LTP)-like plasticity. Critically, when applied *concurrently* with a behavioral task, tDCS can selectively enhance the synaptic changes associated with learning that task, a concept known as "gating" or "priming" plasticity. This synergistic effect is the core rationale for combining tDCS with CR.\
\
Preliminary evidence from small, often single-center Phase II studies supports the feasibility of this approach. Studies in chronic stroke patients have shown that tDCS+CR can lead to greater improvements in working memory and attention than CR alone. However, critical gaps remain: 1) **Efficacy in a pure VCI population:** Many studies included mixed etiologies or focused on motor recovery. 2) **Optimal dosing and targeting:** The majority of studies used limited sessions (\uc0\u8804 10) and variable cortical targets. 3) **Durability and functional impact:** Long-term follow-up and measures of daily-life function are scarce. 4) **Mechanistic understanding:** How tDCS influences brain network reorganization to support cognitive gains is not well-characterized.\
\
**Study Rationale:** This Phase III trial is designed to address these gaps by evaluating a standardized, intensive protocol of tDCS+CR in a well-defined VCI population. By employing a comprehensive outcome battery that includes cognitive performance, functional status, neuroimaging biomarkers, and patient/caregiver-reported outcomes, we aim to demonstrate not only statistical superiority but also *clinical meaningfulness*. Furthermore, the inclusion of multimodal MRI will provide unprecedented insights into the neural mechanisms underlying treatment response, guiding future personalized neuromodulation strategies. Establishing tDCS as an effective adjuvant to CR could revolutionize post-stroke cognitive care, offering a novel, accessible, and mechanism-driven therapy for a condition with few effective options.\
\
---\
\
### **3.0 METHODS**\
\
**3.1 Trial Design:** Multicenter, randomized, triple-blind (participant, interventionist, outcome assessor), sham-controlled, parallel-group superiority trial across 12 stroke rehabilitation centers.\
\
**3.2 Participants:**\
*   **Inclusion Criteria:**\
    1.  Age 50-85 years.\
    2.  First-ever or recurrent ischemic or hemorrhagic stroke, confirmed by CT/MRI, occurring 3-12 months prior to screening (stable chronic phase).\
    3.  Clinical diagnosis of mild or moderate VCI, defined by: a) Subjective cognitive complaint from patient or informant; b) Objective impairment: MoCA score 18-25; c) Functional independence preserved (modified Rankin Scale 1-3).\
    4.  Fluent in primary language of the study site.\
    5.  Able to provide informed consent (or via legally authorized representative if capacity is borderline, with participant's assent).\
*   **Exclusion Criteria:**\
    1.  Pre-stroke diagnosis of major neurocognitive disorder (e.g., Alzheimer's disease).\
    2.  Other major neurological or psychiatric conditions (e.g., severe aphasia, major depression, epilepsy).\
    3.  Contraindications to tDCS (scalp lesions, metal implants in head) or MRI.\
    4.  Participation in another investigational therapy trial.\
\
**3.3 Randomization and Blinding:** After baseline assessments, eligible participants will be randomized 1:1 via a centralized, computer-generated, adaptive minimization algorithm stratified by: **1) Study center, 2) Stroke type (ischemic/hemorrhagic), 3) Baseline MoCA (18-21 vs. 22-25).** The tDCS device (a CE-marked/ FDA-cleared research stimulator) will be pre-programmed with a unique code for "Active" or "Sham" mode by an independent biostatistician. The treatment codes will be sealed in opaque envelopes kept off-site. The CR therapist administering the sessions will operate the device per the code but will be blinded to its true mode. All outcome assessors and data analysts will remain blinded until the final database lock.\
\
**3.4 Interventions:**\
*   **Cognitive Rehabilitation (Both Groups):** A standardized, computerized CR platform (e.g., RehaCom\'ae or equivalent) will be used. Each 60-minute session will include adaptive, graded exercises targeting four core domains: **Working Memory/Updating, Task-Switching/Shifting, Inhibitory Control, and Processing Speed.** The difficulty level will automatically adjust to maintain a ~80% accuracy rate, ensuring an optimal challenge.\
*   **Active tDCS + CR:** At the start of each CR session, two 5x5 cm saline-soaked sponge electrodes will be placed. The **anode** will be positioned over F3 (left DLPFC) and the **cathode** over the right supraorbital region (Fp2). A constant current of 2mA will be ramped up over 30 seconds, maintained for 20 minutes during the core CR tasks, and then ramped down over 30 seconds.\
*   **Sham tDCS + CR:** The electrode placement and initial 30-second ramp-up will be identical. The current will then be automatically turned off (or reduced to a negligible, unfelt current <0.1mA in some devices) for 19 minutes, before a 30-second ramp-down at the end. This robust sham protocol reliably mimics the initial tingling sensation of active tDCS, ensuring effective blinding.\
\
**Protocol:** 15 sessions (3 sessions/week for 5 weeks). Total tDCS dose: 300 minutes at 2mA.\
\
**3.5 Outcome Measures:**\
*   **Primary Efficacy Endpoint:** Change from **Baseline (T0)** to **1-week post-intervention (T1)** in the **Neuropsychological Test Battery (NTB) composite z-score.** The NTB comprises: Trail Making Test B, Digit Span Backwards, Stroop Color-Word Interference, Controlled Oral Word Association Test (FAS), and the Hopkins Verbal Learning Test-Revised (Delayed Recall). Individual test scores will be standardized and averaged.\
*   **Secondary Endpoints (T0 to T1 & T2 at 3-month follow-up):**\
    *   Domain-specific cognitive change (individual NTB components).\
    *   **Functional Independence Measure (FIM)-Cognitive subscale** (assessed by blinded rater).\
    *   **Stroke Impact Scale (SIS) v3.0** - Memory/Thinking and Communication domains.\
    *   **Zarit Burden Interview (short-form)** for primary caregivers.\
    *   **MRI Biomarkers (sub-study, n=100):** Resting-state functional connectivity (rs-FC) within the Frontoparietal Control Network and Default Mode Network; cortical thickness of the left DLPFC and anterior cingulate.\
*   **Safety Endpoints:** Incidence, severity, and relatedness of Adverse Events (AEs), particularly skin irritation, headache, fatigue, and any serious AEs.\
\
**3.6 Statistical Analysis:**\
A sample size of 250 completers provides 90% power (\uc0\u945 =0.05, two-sided) to detect a between-group difference of 0.5 standard deviations on the NTB z-score (a moderate effect size), assuming a 10% dropout rate. Therefore, 280 participants will be randomized.\
\
Analyses will follow the **Intent-to-Treat (ITT)** principle. The primary analysis will use a **linear mixed-effects model (LMM)** with the NTB z-score at T1 as the dependent variable, and treatment group, baseline NTB score, and stratification factors as fixed effects, with a random intercept for study site. The primary test will be the group effect (active vs. sham). Missing data will be handled using multiple imputation by chained equations.\
\
Secondary continuous endpoints will be analyzed similarly with LMMs. Binary safety outcomes will use Chi-square or Fisher's exact tests. An exploratory **per-protocol analysis** will be conducted. A pre-planned **moderator analysis** will test if baseline MoCA severity, stroke type, or rs-FC strength predicts treatment response.\
\
---\
\
### **4.0 EXPECTED RESULTS, MECHANISMS, AND IMPLICATIONS**\
\
**4.1 Anticipated Findings:** We hypothesize that the **active tDCS+CR group will show a significantly greater improvement in the NTB composite z-score at T1** compared to the sham group (estimated between-group difference: 0.5-0.7 SD). We expect this global cognitive benefit to be driven predominantly by **executive function** (Trails B, Stroop) and **working memory** (Digit Span). Gains in the active group are predicted to be **partially maintained at the 3-month follow-up (T2)**, though some attenuation is expected.\
\
On neuroimaging, we anticipate that the active tDCS group will demonstrate: **1) Increased rs-FC** within the stimulated frontoparietal network; **2) Correlation** between the degree of connectivity change and cognitive improvement. These findings would provide direct evidence of tDCS-induced network reorganization.\
\
We expect both interventions to be safe and well-tolerated, with a slightly higher incidence of transient, mild skin redness or headache under the anode in the active group. No serious device-related AEs are anticipated.\
\
**4.2 Proposed Mechanistic Framework:** The synergistic effect of tDCS+CR is theorized to operate through a "bottom-up" and "top-down" mechanism:\
1.  **Neurophysiological Priming (Bottom-Up):** The anodal current depolarizes pyramidal neurons in the left DLPFC, increasing spontaneous firing rates and lowering the threshold for LTP. This creates a permissive state of heightened plasticity.\
2.  **Behavioral Gating (Top-Down):** The concurrent CR provides structured, salient neural activity (task-specific firing patterns). The tDCS-primed cortex selectively strengthens the synaptic connections engaged by this specific activity, "locking in" the learning. This is akin to tDCS opening a gate for plasticity, and CR directing the traffic through it.\
3.  **Network Reorganization:** The localized effect in the DLPFC propagates through its dense white matter connections (e.g., superior longitudinal fasciculus) to modulate activity in interconnected parietal and cingulate regions, enhancing the efficiency of entire cognitive control networks.\
\
**4.3 Clinical Implications and Limitations:** If successful, this trial would provide Level I evidence supporting adjunctive tDCS as a **standard component of post-stroke cognitive rehabilitation**. It offers a non-pharmacological, potentially cost-effective strategy to amplify the benefits of existing therapy.\
\
**Limitations** are acknowledged. First, the 5-week intervention may not be optimal; longer or maintenance protocols may be needed for maximal effect. Second, while we target the left DLPFC based on strong rationale, personalization of target (e.g., based on lesion location) may yield better outcomes. Third, the sham-controlled design does not allow isolation of the specific interaction effect between tDCS and the *type* of CR task; future studies could vary CR content. Finally, the generalizability to patients with severe VCI or in the acute/subacute phase post-stroke requires separate investigation.\
\
---\
\
### **5.0 ETHICS, DISSEMINATION, AND TIMELINE**\
\
**Ethical Considerations:** The study protocol has been approved by a central ethics committee (EC) and local IRBs at all sites. The risk-benefit ratio is favorable: tDCS is considered low-risk, and the potential benefit of improved cognitive function is high. Consent procedures will be carefully adapted for participants with cognitive impairment, ensuring comprehension and involving caregivers.\
\
**Data Management and Monitoring:** An independent Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) will review unblinded safety data at pre-specified intervals. All data will be recorded in a compliant electronic data capture (EDC) system.\
\
**Dissemination Plan:** Results will be published in a high-impact neurology journal (e.g., *The Lancet Neurology*, *Brain*). Findings will be presented at international stroke and neurology conferences. A lay summary will be disseminated to patient advocacy groups (e.g., National Stroke Association) and all participants.\
\
**Timeline:**\
*   **Months 1-9:** Site setup, training, regulatory approvals.\
*   **Months 10-33:** Participant enrollment and intervention phase.\
*   **Months 34-36:** Follow-up assessments and data collection completion.\
*   **Months 37-40:** Data analysis, manuscript preparation, and submission.\
\
---\
\
### **6.0 CONCLUSION**\
\
The NEURORESTORE-03 trial is a definitive investigation into a novel, plasticity-enhancing strategy for post-stroke VCI. By rigorously testing the synergistic combination of tDCS and cognitive rehabilitation, it seeks to advance beyond incremental gains in supportive care toward a restorative therapeutic model. Through its multidimensional assessment of cognitive, functional, neural, and patient-centered outcomes, this study aims not only to establish clinical efficacy but also to illuminate the mechanisms of recovery, paving the way for a new era of targeted neuromodulation in vascular brain disease.\
\
**Funding:** This study is funded by the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) under grant U01NS112120.\
\
**Conflicts of Interest:** All investigators have submitted disclosure forms. The tDCS devices are provided by an independent manufacturer under an unrestricted research grant with no involvement in study design, analysis, or publication.}