{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red109\green109\blue109;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c50196\c50196\c50196;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Below is an 
\f1\b original medical scientific study
\f0\b0 , written in a 
\f1\b formal academic style
\f0\b0 , approximately 
\f1\b 1,500 words
\f0\b0 , and structured according to standard biomedical journal conventions. The topic is 
\f1\b prenatal vitamin D status and preeclampsia
\f0\b0 , distinct from the previous studies.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa321\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs48 \cf0 \strokec2 Maternal Vitamin D Status and the Risk of Preeclampsia: A Prospective Cohort Study\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\fs36 \cf0 Abstract\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Background:
\f0\b0  Preeclampsia is a hypertensive disorder of pregnancy associated with significant maternal and neonatal morbidity and mortality. Emerging evidence suggests that vitamin D plays a role in immune regulation, endothelial function, and placental development, all of which are implicated in the pathophysiology of preeclampsia. However, findings regarding the association between maternal vitamin D status and preeclampsia remain inconsistent.\

\f1\b Objective:
\f0\b0  To investigate the association between maternal serum vitamin D levels during early pregnancy and the subsequent development of preeclampsia.\

\f1\b Methods:
\f0\b0  A prospective cohort study was conducted involving 520 pregnant women recruited during the first trimester. Serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH)D] concentrations were measured at 12\'9614 weeks of gestation. Participants were followed until delivery, and the incidence of preeclampsia was recorded. Multivariate logistic regression analyses were performed to assess the association between vitamin D status and preeclampsia after adjusting for potential confounders.\

\f1\b Results:
\f0\b0  Preeclampsia developed in 48 participants (9.2%). Vitamin D deficiency (<20 ng/mL) was significantly more prevalent among women who developed preeclampsia compared to those who did not (62.5% vs. 34.1%, p < 0.001). After adjustment for maternal age, body mass index, parity, and comorbidities, vitamin D deficiency was independently associated with an increased risk of preeclampsia (adjusted odds ratio 2.41; 95% CI: 1.32\'964.39).\

\f1\b Conclusion:
\f0\b0  Low maternal vitamin D levels in early pregnancy are independently associated with an increased risk of preeclampsia. Early screening and correction of vitamin D deficiency may represent a modifiable strategy to reduce the risk of this pregnancy complication.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 \strokec2 Introduction\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Preeclampsia is a multisystem disorder characterized by new-onset hypertension and proteinuria or end-organ dysfunction after 20 weeks of gestation. It affects approximately 5\'9610% of pregnancies worldwide and remains a leading cause of maternal and perinatal morbidity and mortality. Despite extensive research, the precise etiology of preeclampsia is not fully understood, and effective preventive strategies remain limited.\
The pathophysiology of preeclampsia is believed to involve abnormal placentation, endothelial dysfunction, immune maladaptation, and an exaggerated inflammatory response. These processes lead to impaired uteroplacental perfusion and systemic maternal vascular dysfunction. Identifying modifiable risk factors that influence these pathways is a major focus of current research.\
Vitamin D is a fat-soluble hormone with well-established roles in calcium homeostasis and bone metabolism. In recent years, its extra-skeletal effects have gained increasing attention. Vitamin D receptors are expressed in the placenta, decidua, and immune cells, suggesting a role in placental development and immune regulation during pregnancy. Vitamin D has been shown to modulate inflammatory cytokine production, promote endothelial health, and influence angiogenesis.\
Observational studies have reported an association between low maternal vitamin D levels and adverse pregnancy outcomes, including gestational diabetes, preterm birth, and preeclampsia. However, results have been inconsistent, possibly due to differences in study design, timing of vitamin D assessment, and population characteristics.\
This prospective cohort study aims to evaluate the relationship between maternal vitamin D status in early pregnancy and the risk of developing preeclampsia.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 \strokec2 Methods\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf0 Study Design and Ethical Approval\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 This prospective cohort study was conducted at a tertiary obstetric center between January 2022 and December 2024. The study protocol was approved by the institutional ethics committee, and all participants provided written informed consent prior to enrollment.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Participants\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Pregnant women attending their first prenatal visit were screened for eligibility. Inclusion criteria were age 18\'9640 years, singleton pregnancy, and gestational age between 12 and 14 weeks confirmed by ultrasound. Exclusion criteria included chronic hypertension, pre-existing diabetes mellitus, renal disease, autoimmune disorders, use of vitamin D supplementation exceeding 1,000 IU/day prior to enrollment, and multiple pregnancies.\
A total of 520 eligible women were enrolled consecutively.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Assessment of Vitamin D Status\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Fasting venous blood samples were collected at 12\'9614 weeks of gestation. Serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH)D] concentrations were measured using a standardized chemiluminescent immunoassay. Vitamin D status was categorized as follows:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\b \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Deficient:
\f0\b0  <20 ng/mL\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Insufficient:
\f0\b0  20\'9629 ng/mL\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Sufficient:
\f0\b0  \uc0\u8805 30 ng/mL\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 \strokec2 Follow-Up and Outcome Measures\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Participants received routine prenatal care and were followed until delivery. Blood pressure measurements and urine protein assessments were performed at each prenatal visit. Preeclampsia was diagnosed according to established international criteria, defined as new-onset hypertension (\uc0\u8805 140/90 mmHg) after 20 weeks of gestation accompanied by proteinuria or signs of end-organ dysfunction.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Covariates\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Data were collected on maternal age, body mass index (BMI), parity, smoking status, socioeconomic status, season of blood sampling, and family history of hypertension. These variables were considered potential confounders and included in multivariate analyses.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Statistical Analysis\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Continuous variables were expressed as mean \'b1 standard deviation, and categorical variables as frequencies and percentages. Comparisons between groups were performed using independent t-tests or chi-square tests as appropriate. Logistic regression analysis was used to evaluate the association between vitamin D status and preeclampsia. Adjusted odds ratios (aORs) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were reported. A p-value < 0.05 was considered statistically significant.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 \strokec2 Results\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf0 Baseline Characteristics\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Of the 520 participants, complete follow-up data were available for 503 women (96.7%). Baseline characteristics were similar between those who developed preeclampsia and those who did not, except for BMI and vitamin D status. Women who developed preeclampsia had a higher mean BMI and a higher prevalence of vitamin D deficiency.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Vitamin D Status\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Overall, 38.6% of participants were vitamin D deficient, 34.2% were insufficient, and 27.2% were sufficient at baseline. Vitamin D deficiency was more common among women enrolled during winter months and those with higher BMI.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Incidence of Preeclampsia\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Preeclampsia developed in 48 participants (9.2%). The incidence of preeclampsia was significantly higher among vitamin D\'96deficient women compared to those with sufficient levels (14.8% vs. 4.4%, p < 0.001).\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Multivariate Analysis\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 After adjusting for maternal age, BMI, parity, season, and family history of hypertension, vitamin D deficiency remained independently associated with preeclampsia (aOR 2.41; 95% CI: 1.32\'964.39). Vitamin D insufficiency was associated with a moderately increased risk, though this did not reach statistical significance.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 \strokec2 Discussion\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 This prospective cohort study demonstrates a significant association between low maternal vitamin D levels in early pregnancy and an increased risk of preeclampsia. Women with vitamin D deficiency were more than twice as likely to develop preeclampsia compared to those with sufficient vitamin D levels, even after adjustment for known risk factors.\
Several biological mechanisms may explain this association. Vitamin D is involved in regulating immune tolerance at the maternal\'96fetal interface, promoting proper trophoblast invasion and placental vascular development. Deficiency may lead to impaired placentation and increased systemic inflammation, key features in the pathogenesis of preeclampsia. Additionally, vitamin D has been shown to modulate the renin\'96angiotensin system, which plays a role in blood pressure regulation.\
The findings of this study are consistent with several observational studies and meta-analyses reporting an association between low vitamin D levels and preeclampsia risk. However, randomized controlled trials of vitamin D supplementation have yielded mixed results, possibly due to differences in dosing, timing of supplementation, and baseline vitamin D status.\
Strengths of this study include its prospective design, early assessment of vitamin D status, and adjustment for multiple confounding variables. Limitations include reliance on a single measurement of vitamin D and the observational nature of the study, which precludes causal inference.\
Future research should focus on well-designed randomized trials assessing the effect of early pregnancy vitamin D supplementation on preeclampsia prevention, particularly among high-risk populations.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 \strokec2 Conclusion\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Maternal vitamin D deficiency in early pregnancy is independently associated with an increased risk of preeclampsia. Early screening for vitamin D deficiency and appropriate supplementation may represent a simple and cost-effective strategy to reduce the burden of preeclampsia. Further interventional studies are needed to confirm these findings and inform clinical guidelines.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 \strokec2 Keywords\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Vitamin D; preeclampsia; pregnancy; maternal health; prenatal care; hypertensive disorders of pregnancy\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \strokec2 If you want, I can:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Adapt this study to 
\f1\b another obstetric or medical topic
\f0\b0 \
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Add 
\f1\b references and tables
\f0\b0 \
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Rewrite it to match a 
\f1\b specific journal\'92s submission requirements
\f0\b0 \
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Convert it into a 
\f1\b systematic review or randomized trial design
\f0\b0 \
}