{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red109\green109\blue109;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c50196\c50196\c50196;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}
{\list\listtemplateid5\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid401\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid5}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid5\listoverridecount0\ls5}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Below is an 
\f1\b original medical scientific study
\f0\b0 , written in a 
\f1\b formal academic style
\f0\b0 , approximately 
\f1\b 1,500 words
\f0\b0 , and structured according to standard biomedical journal conventions. The topic is different from the previous ones to avoid repetition.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa321\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs48 \cf0 \strokec2 The Effect of Structured Physical Activity on Cognitive Function and Depressive Symptoms in Older Adults With Mild Cognitive Impairment: A Prospective Controlled Study\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\fs36 \cf0 Abstract\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Background:
\f0\b0  Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) is a transitional state between normal aging and dementia, associated with an increased risk of cognitive decline and neuropsychiatric symptoms, particularly depression. Non-pharmacological interventions, such as physical activity, have gained attention as potential strategies to slow cognitive deterioration and improve mental health outcomes.\

\f1\b Objective:
\f0\b0  To assess the impact of a structured physical activity program on cognitive performance and depressive symptoms in older adults diagnosed with MCI.\

\f1\b Methods:
\f0\b0  This prospective controlled study enrolled 140 participants aged 60\'9680 years with clinically diagnosed MCI. Participants were allocated to either a structured physical activity intervention group or a control group receiving standard care. The intervention consisted of supervised aerobic and resistance exercises performed three times weekly for 24 weeks. Cognitive function was evaluated using the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA), while depressive symptoms were assessed using the Geriatric Depression Scale (GDS). Secondary outcomes included functional mobility and quality of life. Statistical analyses were conducted using repeated-measures analysis of variance.\

\f1\b Results:
\f0\b0  After 24 weeks, participants in the intervention group demonstrated a significant improvement in MoCA scores compared to the control group (+2.3 vs. \uc0\u8722 0.4 points, p < 0.001). GDS scores decreased significantly in the intervention group, indicating reduced depressive symptoms (\u8722 3.1 vs. \u8722 0.6, p < 0.01). Improvements in mobility and quality of life were also observed. No serious adverse events were reported.\

\f1\b Conclusion:
\f0\b0  Structured physical activity significantly improves cognitive function and depressive symptoms in older adults with MCI. These findings support the incorporation of exercise-based interventions into early cognitive impairment management strategies.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 \strokec2 Introduction\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Population aging has led to a rapid increase in the prevalence of cognitive disorders, including mild cognitive impairment (MCI). MCI is characterized by measurable cognitive decline that exceeds normal age-related changes while preserving functional independence. Individuals with MCI have a substantially higher risk of progressing to Alzheimer\'92s disease and other forms of dementia, making early intervention critical.\
In addition to cognitive deficits, individuals with MCI frequently experience neuropsychiatric symptoms, particularly depression and anxiety. Depressive symptoms in MCI are associated with faster cognitive decline, reduced quality of life, and increased caregiver burden. Pharmacological treatments for MCI remain limited, and current medications have shown inconsistent efficacy and potential adverse effects.\
Physical activity has emerged as a promising non-pharmacological approach to preserving cognitive function and mental health in older adults. Regular exercise is known to improve cerebral blood flow, reduce inflammation, enhance neurogenesis, and promote synaptic plasticity. Epidemiological studies suggest that physically active individuals have a lower risk of cognitive decline; however, controlled studies specifically targeting patients with MCI are still relatively scarce.\
This study aims to evaluate the effect of a structured physical activity program on cognitive performance and depressive symptoms in older adults with MCI over a 24-week period.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 \strokec2 Methods\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf0 Study Design and Ethics\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 This was a prospective, controlled, parallel-group study conducted at a geriatric outpatient clinic. The study protocol was approved by the institutional ethics committee, and all participants provided written informed consent prior to enrollment.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Participants\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 A total of 140 participants aged 60\'9680 years were recruited. Inclusion criteria included a diagnosis of MCI based on established clinical criteria, a MoCA score between 18 and 25, and the ability to participate in moderate physical activity. Exclusion criteria included diagnosed dementia, major depressive disorder requiring immediate pharmacological treatment, severe cardiovascular disease, musculoskeletal conditions limiting mobility, or participation in structured exercise programs within the past six months.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Group Allocation\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Participants were allocated to one of two groups:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\b \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Intervention Group (Physical Activity Group):
\f0\b0  Participants engaged in a structured physical activity program.\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Control Group:
\f0\b0  Participants received standard care, including routine medical follow-up and general lifestyle advice, without structured exercise.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Allocation was performed using a computerized sequence to minimize selection bias.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Intervention Protocol\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 The physical activity program lasted 24 weeks and consisted of supervised sessions three times per week. Each session lasted approximately 60 minutes and included:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0
\f1\b \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	1	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Warm-up (10 minutes):
\f0\b0  Light stretching and mobility exercises\
\ls2\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	2	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Aerobic Training (25 minutes):
\f0\b0  Brisk walking or stationary cycling at moderate intensity\
\ls2\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	3	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Resistance Training (15 minutes):
\f0\b0  Exercises targeting major muscle groups using resistance bands\
\ls2\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	4	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Cool-down (10 minutes):
\f0\b0  Stretching and relaxation exercises\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Exercise intensity was individualized and adjusted progressively based on participant tolerance.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Outcome Measures\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa319\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Primary Outcomes\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Cognitive Function:
\f0\b0  Assessed using the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA)\
\ls3\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Depressive Symptoms:
\f0\b0  Assessed using the Geriatric Depression Scale (GDS)\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa319\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Secondary Outcomes\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls4\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Functional Mobility:
\f0\b0  Measured using the Timed Up and Go (TUG) test\
\ls4\ilvl0
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Quality of Life:
\f0\b0  Evaluated using the Short Form-36 (SF-36) questionnaire\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Assessments were performed at baseline and at the end of the 24-week intervention.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Statistical Analysis\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Data were analyzed using an intention-to-treat approach. Continuous variables were expressed as mean \'b1 standard deviation. Repeated-measures analysis of variance was used to compare changes over time between groups. A p-value of less than 0.05 was considered statistically significant.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 \strokec2 Results\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf0 Participant Characteristics\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Of the 140 enrolled participants, 132 completed the study (intervention group: n = 66; control group: n = 66). Baseline demographic and clinical characteristics, including age, sex distribution, educational level, baseline MoCA and GDS scores, and comorbidities, were comparable between groups.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Cognitive Outcomes\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 At baseline, mean MoCA scores were similar between groups. After 24 weeks, the intervention group demonstrated a significant improvement in cognitive performance, with mean MoCA scores increasing by 2.3 \'b1 1.4 points. In contrast, the control group exhibited a slight decline of 0.4 \'b1 1.1 points (p < 0.001 between groups).\
Improvements were most notable in domains related to executive function, attention, and memory.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Depressive Symptoms\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Participants in the physical activity group experienced a significant reduction in depressive symptoms, as evidenced by a decrease in GDS scores of 3.1 \'b1 2.0 points. The control group showed a modest reduction of 0.6 \'b1 1.5 points (p < 0.01).\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Secondary Outcomes\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Functional mobility improved significantly in the intervention group, with TUG test times decreasing by an average of 1.8 seconds compared to minimal change in the control group. Quality-of-life scores improved in the physical and mental health domains of the SF-36 questionnaire among participants in the intervention group.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Adverse Events\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 No serious adverse events occurred during the study. Minor musculoskeletal discomfort was reported by a small number of participants during the initial weeks of exercise and resolved with program adjustments.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 \strokec2 Discussion\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 The findings of this study demonstrate that a structured physical activity program significantly improves cognitive function and reduces depressive symptoms in older adults with MCI. The observed improvement in MoCA scores is clinically meaningful and suggests that exercise may slow or partially reverse cognitive decline in this population.\
Several biological mechanisms may explain these effects. Physical activity enhances cerebral perfusion, stimulates the release of neurotrophic factors such as brain-derived neurotrophic factor, and reduces systemic inflammation. These changes may contribute to improved neuronal function and cognitive resilience. Additionally, regular exercise has well-established antidepressant effects, which may further support cognitive health.\
The improvement in functional mobility and quality of life highlights the broader benefits of physical activity beyond cognitive outcomes. Improved physical function may promote independence and reduce the risk of disability, which is particularly important in older adults with cognitive impairment.\
Limitations of this study include its single-center design and lack of long-term follow-up to assess sustained benefits and progression to dementia. Future research should explore the optimal type, intensity, and duration of exercise interventions and evaluate their long-term impact on cognitive trajectories.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 \strokec2 Conclusion\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Structured physical activity is a safe and effective intervention for improving cognitive function, reducing depressive symptoms, and enhancing quality of life in older adults with mild cognitive impairment. These results support the integration of exercise-based programs into early intervention strategies for cognitive decline.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 \strokec2 Keywords\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Mild cognitive impairment; physical activity; cognitive function; depression; aging; non-pharmacological intervention\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \strokec2 If you\'92d like, I can:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls5\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Adjust this study to 
\f1\b another medical specialty
\f0\b0 \
\ls5\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Rewrite it for 
\f1\b publication-level rigor
\f0\b0 \
\ls5\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Add 
\f1\b references, tables, or figures
\f0\b0 \
\ls5\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Convert it into a 
\f1\b systematic review or meta-analysis
\f0\b0 \
}