{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red109\green109\blue109;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c50196\c50196\c50196;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Below is an 
\f1\b original medical scientific study
\f0\b0 , written in a 
\f1\b formal academic style
\f0\b0 , approximately 
\f1\b 1,500 words
\f0\b0 , and structured according to standard biomedical journal conventions. The topic is 
\f1\b the relationship between long-term air pollution exposure and asthma control in urban adults
\f0\b0 .\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa321\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs48 \cf0 \strokec2 Long-Term Exposure to Ambient Air Pollution and Asthma Control in Urban Adults: A Prospective Cohort Study\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\fs36 \cf0 Abstract\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Background:
\f0\b0  Asthma is a chronic inflammatory airway disease affecting over 300 million individuals worldwide. Environmental factors, particularly ambient air pollution, are known to exacerbate asthma symptoms and increase healthcare utilization. However, the impact of long-term exposure to air pollution on asthma control in adults living in urban environments remains insufficiently characterized.\

\f1\b Objective:
\f0\b0  To examine the association between long-term exposure to ambient air pollution and asthma control, lung function, and exacerbation frequency in urban adults with persistent asthma.\

\f1\b Methods:
\f0\b0  A prospective cohort study was conducted involving 420 adults with physician-diagnosed asthma residing in a metropolitan area. Participants were followed for 12 months. Individual exposure to particulate matter \uc0\u8804 2.5 \u956 m (PM\u8322 .\u8325 ), nitrogen dioxide (NO\u8322 ), and ozone (O\u8323 ) was estimated using residential geocoding and air monitoring data. Asthma control was assessed using the Asthma Control Test (ACT), spirometry, and exacerbation records. Multivariate regression analyses were performed to evaluate associations between pollutant exposure and asthma outcomes.\

\f1\b Results:
\f0\b0  Higher annual exposure to PM\uc0\u8322 .\u8325  and NO\u8322  was significantly associated with poorer asthma control, reduced forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV\u8321 ), and increased exacerbation rates. Participants in the highest PM\u8322 .\u8325  exposure quartile had a mean ACT score 3.2 points lower and a 1.9-fold higher exacerbation risk compared to those in the lowest quartile (p < 0.001). Ozone exposure showed a weaker but significant association with symptom burden.\

\f1\b Conclusion:
\f0\b0  Long-term exposure to ambient air pollution is independently associated with poor asthma control and increased exacerbation risk in urban adults. These findings underscore the importance of environmental health policies and targeted interventions for individuals with asthma living in polluted urban settings.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 \strokec2 Introduction\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Asthma is a heterogeneous chronic respiratory disease characterized by airway inflammation, bronchial hyperresponsiveness, and variable airflow obstruction. Despite advances in pharmacological therapy and disease management strategies, many patients continue to experience poor symptom control and frequent exacerbations. Environmental exposures play a critical role in asthma pathophysiology and disease expression, particularly in urban populations.\
Air pollution is a major global public health concern, contributing to millions of premature deaths annually. Urban environments are characterized by elevated levels of traffic-related pollutants, including particulate matter, nitrogen oxides, and ozone. These pollutants have been linked to adverse respiratory outcomes, including asthma development, symptom exacerbation, and reduced lung function.\
Short-term exposure to air pollution is well established as a trigger for asthma exacerbations. However, the effects of chronic, long-term exposure on asthma control and disease progression are less clearly defined, particularly in adult populations. Most existing studies have focused on pediatric cohorts or acute exposure events, limiting the understanding of sustained environmental impacts on adult asthma.\
Long-term exposure to air pollutants may perpetuate airway inflammation, promote structural airway changes, and reduce responsiveness to inhaled corticosteroids. Understanding these associations is essential for informing both clinical management and public health interventions aimed at improving asthma outcomes.\
This study aimed to investigate the relationship between long-term ambient air pollution exposure and asthma control, lung function, and exacerbation frequency in adults residing in an urban environment.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 \strokec2 Methods\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf0 Study Design and Ethics\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 This was a prospective cohort study conducted between January 2023 and January 2024. The study protocol was approved by the institutional ethics review board, and all participants provided written informed consent prior to enrollment.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Participants\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Adults aged 18\'9665 years with physician-diagnosed persistent asthma were recruited from outpatient pulmonary clinics across a large metropolitan area. Inclusion criteria included asthma diagnosis for at least one year, use of controller medication, and residence at the same address for a minimum of two years. Exclusion criteria included smoking history exceeding 10 pack-years, diagnosis of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, pregnancy, and significant cardiopulmonary comorbidities.\
A total of 420 participants met eligibility criteria and were enrolled.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Exposure Assessment\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Long-term exposure to air pollution was estimated using residential address geocoding and data from fixed-site air quality monitoring stations. Annual average concentrations of PM\uc0\u8322 .\u8325 , NO\u8322 , and O\u8323  were calculated for each participant based on proximity-weighted monitoring data. Exposure levels were categorized into quartiles for analysis.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Outcome Measures\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa319\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Asthma Control\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf0 Asthma control was assessed using the validated Asthma Control Test (ACT), with scores ranging from 5 to 25. An ACT score below 20 indicated uncontrolled asthma.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa319\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Lung Function\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf0 Spirometry was performed at baseline and 12 months according to standardized guidelines. Forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV\uc0\u8321 ) and forced vital capacity (FVC) were recorded as percentages of predicted values.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa319\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Asthma Exacerbations\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf0 Exacerbations were defined as episodes requiring systemic corticosteroids, emergency department visits, or hospitalization. Exacerbation frequency was recorded through medical records and participant interviews.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Covariates\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Data were collected on age, sex, body mass index (BMI), socioeconomic status, medication adherence, physical activity, indoor allergen exposure, and comorbid allergic rhinitis. These variables were included as potential confounders in statistical analyses.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Statistical Analysis\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Continuous variables were expressed as mean \'b1 standard deviation, and categorical variables as percentages. Multivariate linear and Poisson regression models were used to assess associations between pollutant exposure and asthma outcomes, adjusting for covariates. A p-value < 0.05 was considered statistically significant.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 \strokec2 Results\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf0 Participant Characteristics\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Of the 420 participants, 401 completed the 12-month follow-up. The mean age was 42.7 \'b1 11.3 years, and 58% were female. Baseline asthma severity, medication use, and lung function were similar across exposure quartiles.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Air Pollution Exposure\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Mean annual concentrations were 18.6 \uc0\u956 g/m\'b3 for PM\u8322 .\u8325 , 32.4 ppb for NO\u8322 , and 41.2 ppb for O\u8323 . Participants in higher exposure quartiles were more likely to reside near major roadways and in areas of lower socioeconomic status.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Asthma Control\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Higher exposure to PM\uc0\u8322 .\u8325  and NO\u8322  was significantly associated with lower ACT scores. Participants in the highest PM\u8322 .\u8325  quartile had a mean ACT score of 17.1 \'b1 3.4 compared to 20.3 \'b1 3.1 in the lowest quartile (p < 0.001). Similar trends were observed for NO\u8322  exposure.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Lung Function\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 FEV\uc0\u8321  percent predicted was significantly lower among participants with higher PM\u8322 .\u8325  exposure. After adjustment, each 5 \u956 g/m\'b3 increase in PM\u8322 .\u8325  was associated with a 3.6% reduction in FEV\u8321  (p = 0.002). No significant association was observed between O\u8323  exposure and lung function decline.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Asthma Exacerbations\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Participants in the highest PM\uc0\u8322 .\u8325  exposure quartile experienced a higher annual exacerbation rate compared to those in the lowest quartile (1.8 vs. 0.9 exacerbations per year; incidence rate ratio 1.9, p < 0.001). NO\u8322  exposure showed a similar but slightly weaker association.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 \strokec2 Discussion\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 This prospective cohort study demonstrates that long-term exposure to ambient air pollution, particularly PM\uc0\u8322 .\u8325  and NO\u8322 , is independently associated with poor asthma control, reduced lung function, and increased exacerbation frequency in urban adults. These findings highlight the chronic impact of environmental pollutants on asthma beyond acute symptom triggering.\
The observed association between PM\uc0\u8322 .\u8325  exposure and reduced lung function may reflect persistent airway inflammation and oxidative stress induced by fine particulate matter. Traffic-related pollutants such as NO\u8322  may further contribute to airway hyperresponsiveness and diminished response to controller medications.\
The weaker association observed with ozone exposure may be due to its seasonal variability and greater relevance to acute rather than chronic respiratory effects. Nonetheless, ozone remains an important contributor to symptom burden in susceptible individuals.\
Strengths of this study include its prospective design, comprehensive exposure assessment, and adjustment for multiple confounding variables. Limitations include potential exposure misclassification and lack of personal air monitoring data. Additionally, the study population was limited to urban residents, which may limit generalizability to rural settings.\
Future research should explore interventions aimed at reducing personal exposure to air pollution, such as air filtration systems and urban planning strategies, and evaluate their impact on asthma outcomes.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 \strokec2 Conclusion\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Long-term exposure to ambient air pollution is associated with poorer asthma control, reduced lung function, and increased exacerbation risk in urban adults with asthma. These findings emphasize the importance of addressing environmental determinants of health in asthma management and support the need for public health policies aimed at improving urban air quality.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 \strokec2 Keywords\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Asthma; air pollution; particulate matter; nitrogen dioxide; urban health; respiratory disease\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \strokec2 If you want, I can:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Write this in a 
\f1\b specific journal format
\f0\b0 \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Add 
\f1\b references, tables, or figures
\f0\b0 \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Change the topic to 
\f1\b any medical specialty
\f0\b0 \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Increase or reduce the 
\f1\b technical level
\f0\b0 \
}