{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 **Title:** A Randomized Controlled Trial of Intermittent Theta-Burst Stimulation (iTBS) for the Treatment of Post-Stroke Aphasia: Neural Correlates of Recovery\
\
**Authors:** Dr. Alexander J. Vance\'b9, Prof. Hana Ito\'b2, Dr. Benjamin Carter\'b3, Dr. Sofia Petrova\'b9\
**Affiliations:**\
\'b9Department of Neurology & Neurorehabilitation, Metropolitan Neuroscience Institute\
\'b2Department of Brain Imaging and Cognitive Neuroscience, University of Chicago\
\'b3Department of Biostatistics, Metropolitan Neuroscience Institute\
\
**Clinical Trial Registration:** NCT06015478\
\
**Abstract**\
**Background:** Post-stroke aphasia, a debilitating language disorder, often exhibits limited recovery with standard speech therapy. Non-invasive brain stimulation, particularly repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (rTMS), may modulate cortical excitability to promote neuroplasticity. Intermittent Theta-Burst Stimulation (iTBS), a potent, efficient rTMS protocol, can increase cortical excitability. Its efficacy and neural mechanisms in chronic aphasia remain underexplored.\
**Objective:** To evaluate the efficacy of iTBS applied to the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) as an adjunct to constraint-induced aphasia therapy (CIAT) on language recovery and to identify associated changes in functional brain connectivity.\
**Methods:** In a randomized, double-blind, sham-controlled trial, 90 participants with chronic (>6 months) post-stroke non-fluent aphasia were assigned 1:1 to active iTBS (n=45) or sham iTBS (n=45). Both groups received 10 days of intensive CIAT. iTBS/sham was applied to the left DLPFC (targeted via fMRI-guided neuronavigation) immediately before each therapy session. Primary outcome was change in the Western Aphasia Battery-Revised (WAB-R) Aphasia Quotient (AQ) at 1-month post-treatment. Secondary outcomes included: Boston Naming Test (BNT), Communicative Effectiveness Index (CETI), and resting-state functional MRI (rs-fMRI) assessing connectivity within the language network (e.g., between left DLPFC and left inferior frontal gyrus [IFG]). Assessments occurred at baseline, post-treatment, and 3-month follow-up.\
**Results:** 86 participants completed the trial. The active iTBS+CIAT group showed a significantly greater improvement in WAB-R AQ at 1-month compared to sham+CIAT (mean difference: +8.4 points, 95% CI: 4.9 to 11.9; p<0.001). Significant gains were also seen in BNT (p=0.003) and CETI (p<0.001). At 3 months, the treatment effect on WAB-R AQ was sustained (p=0.002). rs-fMRI analysis revealed that treatment response was strongly correlated with increased functional connectivity between the stimulated left DLPFC and perilesional left IFG (r=0.72, p<0.001). This connectivity enhancement was significantly greater in the active iTBS group.\
**Conclusion:** iTBS to the left DLPFC significantly augments the efficacy of intensive language therapy in chronic post-stroke aphasia, leading to clinically meaningful and sustained language recovery. The therapeutic effect is associated with enhanced functional connectivity within the residual language network, suggesting iTBS facilitates the recruitment of prefrontal executive resources to support compromised language areas.\
**Keywords:** Aphasia, Stroke, Theta-Burst Stimulation, Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation, Neuroplasticity, Functional Connectivity, Neuromodulation, Rehabilitation.\
\
**1. Introduction**\
\
Aphasia, the acquired loss of language function, affects approximately one-third of stroke survivors, profoundly impacting communication, social participation, and quality of life. While spontaneous recovery occurs in the first months, many individuals are left with chronic, disabling deficits. Standard speech and language therapy (SLT) yields modest benefits in the chronic phase, highlighting the need for novel, plasticity-enhancing interventions.\
\
The neurobiology of post-stroke aphasia recovery involves complex, large-scale network reorganization. Traditional models focused on perilesional left-hemisphere language zones (Broca's and Wernicke's areas). Contemporary evidence underscores the critical role of domain-general networks, particularly the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC). The DLPFC is involved in cognitive control, working memory, and effortful word retrieval\'97processes essential for aphasia rehabilitation. In aphasia, successful recovery is often associated with increased activation and functional connectivity of the DLPFC with damaged language regions, suggesting a compensatory mechanism.\
\
Repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (rTMS) is a non-invasive technique that can modulate cortical excitability. Inhibitory rTMS over the contralesional (right) hemisphere has been explored to reduce maladaptive interhemispheric inhibition. An alternative strategy is *excitatory* stimulation of residual left-hemisphere nodes to boost their participation in language networks. Intermittent Theta-Burst Stimulation (iTBS) is a patterned form of rTMS that delivers bursts of high-frequency stimulation in a theta rhythm. A single 3-minute session of iTBS can produce prolonged increases in cortical excitability, making it an efficient and powerful tool for neuromodulation.\
\
Applying iTBS to the left DLPFC *before* intensive language therapy may theoretically "prime" the cortex, enhancing its receptivity to therapeutic inputs and strengthening functional connections with perilesional language areas. This "stimulation-plus-therapy" paradigm aligns with principles of spike-timing-dependent plasticity. Preliminary open-label studies are promising, but robust, sham-controlled trials with mechanistic neuroimaging are lacking.\
\
This study aimed to determine whether iTBS to the left DLPFC, combined with constraint-induced aphasia therapy (CIAT), is superior to sham stimulation plus CIAT for improving language function in chronic post-stroke aphasia. Furthermore, we used resting-state fMRI to test the hypothesis that clinical improvement would correlate with enhanced functional connectivity between the stimulated DLPFC and key nodes of the language network.\
\
**2. Methods**\
\
**2.1 Study Design**\
This was a single-center, randomized, double-blind, parallel-group, sham-controlled trial. The protocol was approved by the Metropolitan Neuroscience Institute IRB (IRB# MNI-2022-88). All participants provided written informed consent; for those with significant comprehension impairment, consent was obtained via a legally authorized representative alongside participant assent.\
\
**2.2 Participants**\
Participants were recruited from outpatient stroke clinics. Key inclusion criteria: (1) Single, left-hemisphere ischemic or hemorrhagic stroke >6 months prior; (2) Diagnosis of non-fluent aphasia (Broca's, transcortical motor, or global) confirmed by the WAB-R (AQ 30-70); (3) Aged 40-80; (4) Native English speakers; (5) MRI-compatible.\
Key exclusion criteria: (1) Contraindications to TMS (metal implants, history of seizures); (2) Severe dysarthria or apraxia of speech precluding assessment; (3) Major neurological/psychiatric comorbidities; (4) Severe comprehension deficits (Token Test score <50%); (5) Ongoing participation in other experimental therapies.\
\
**2.3 Randomization and Blinding**\
Participants were stratified by aphasia severity (WAB-R AQ: 30-50 vs. 51-70) and randomized 1:1 via a computer-generated sequence to Active iTBS or Sham iTBS. The TMS technician, who was not involved in assessments, operated the stimulator using a pre-programmed code that activated either the real or sham coil. The sham coil produced identical sound and scalp sensation without delivering significant magnetic field to the cortex. Participants, speech-language pathologists (SLPs), and outcome assessors were blinded to group assignment.\
\
**2.4 Interventions**\
*Stimulation Protocol:* All participants underwent a structural and resting-state fMRI scan at baseline. The left DLPFC target was individualized as the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex showing peak functional connectivity with the left inferior frontal gyrus pars triangularis (Broca's area) using a standardized seed-based analysis. Neuronavigation (Brainsight) ensured precise coil placement. The iTBS protocol followed Huang et al. (2005): triplets of 50 Hz pulses, repeated at 5 Hz, delivered in 2-second trains every 10 seconds for 600 pulses total (3 minutes 9 seconds). Stimulation intensity was 80% of the resting motor threshold (RMT) for the first dorsal interosseous muscle. Treatment was delivered immediately before each CIAT session.\
*Therapy Protocol:* Both groups received 10 consecutive weekdays (2 weeks) of intensive CIAT, a massed-practice, deficit-specific therapy focusing on verbal output constraints and communicative shaping. Sessions were 3 hours daily, conducted in a group format (3 patients:1 SLP), following a standardized manual.\
*Control Condition:* The Sham group received identical procedures with the sham coil placed over the same neuronavigated target.\
\
**2.5 Outcome Measures**\
Assessments occurred at Baseline (T0), Post-Treatment (T1, 1 week after final session), and Follow-Up (T2, 3 months post-treatment).\
*Primary Outcome:* Change in the Western Aphasia Battery-Revised (WAB-R) Aphasia Quotient (AQ) from T0 to T1. The AQ is a composite score (0-100) of spontaneous speech, comprehension, repetition, and naming.\
*Secondary Clinical Outcomes:*\
    - Boston Naming Test (BNT, 60-item): Confrontation naming.\
    - Communicative Effectiveness Index (CETI): Caregiver-rated functional communication.\
    - Stroke and Aphasia Quality of Life Scale-39 (SAQOL-39).\
*Neuroimaging Outcome:* Resting-state fMRI (3T Siemens Prisma) at T0 and T1. Preprocessing included motion correction, normalization to MNI space, and band-pass filtering. Seed-based correlation analysis was performed. The primary seed was the *stimulation target site* in the left DLPFC. We examined its functional connectivity with a priori language network regions of interest (ROIs): left IFG, left posterior superior temporal gyrus (pSTG), and their right hemisphere homologues.\
*Safety:* Adverse events, particularly headache and seizure risk, were monitored.\
\
**2.6 Statistical Analysis**\
Sample size calculation assumed a mean difference of 6 points (SD=8) in WAB-R AQ change, based on prior rTMS studies. With 80% power and alpha=0.05, 40 per group were required. We recruited 45 per group to account for attrition.\
Primary analysis used a linear mixed model with fixed effects for time, group, time-by-group interaction, and baseline AQ, with subject as a random effect. The primary test was the group difference in least-squares mean change from T0 to T1. Secondary continuous outcomes were analyzed similarly. fMRI connectivity values were extracted from ROIs and compared between groups using ANCOVA, controlling for baseline connectivity. Correlations between change in connectivity and change in WAB-R AQ were assessed using Pearson's r. Analyses were intention-to-treat.\
\
**3. Results**\
\
**3.1 Participant Flow and Baseline Data**\
90 participants were randomized. Four withdrew (2 per group) due to unrelated medical issues, leaving 86 for analysis (Active: n=43, Sham: n=43). Groups were well-matched at baseline for age, time post-stroke, aphasia type, and all clinical scores (Table 1). Mean time post-stroke was 3.2 years.\
\
**Table 1. Baseline Characteristics**\
| Characteristic | Active iTBS (n=43) | Sham iTBS (n=43) | p-value |\
|---|---|---|---|\
| Age, years (SD) | 61.4 (8.9) | 63.1 (9.2) | 0.38 |\
| Months Post-Stroke, median (IQR) | 38 (24-52) | 36 (22-55) | 0.76 |\
| WAB-R AQ, mean (SD) | 48.7 (11.2) | 50.1 (10.5) | 0.54 |\
| BNT, mean (SD) | 22.5 (15.8) | 24.1 (14.3) | 0.62 |\
\
**3.2 Primary Clinical Outcome**\
The active iTBS group demonstrated a significantly greater improvement in WAB-R AQ at T1 compared to the sham group (Figure 1). The mean change (SD) was +12.6 (7.1) points for Active iTBS versus +4.2 (6.8) points for Sham. The adjusted mean difference was +8.4 points (95% CI: 4.9 to 11.9; p < 0.001).\
\
**3.3 Secondary Clinical Outcomes**\
Superiority of active iTBS was also seen in:\
- **Boston Naming Test:** Mean difference in change: +5.8 items (95% CI: 2.1 to 9.5; p=0.003).\
- **Communicative Effectiveness Index (CETI):** Mean difference in change: +18.5% (95% CI: 11.2 to 25.8; p<0.001).\
- **SAQOL-39:** The Communication subscale improved more in the active group (p=0.018).\
- **Durability:** At the 3-month follow-up (T2), the treatment effect on WAB-R AQ remained significant (mean difference from baseline: Active +11.1 vs. Sham +5.0; between-group p=0.002).\
\
**3.4 Neuroimaging (rs-fMRI) Results**\
The key finding was a significant group-by-time interaction for functional connectivity between the stimulated left DLPFC seed and the perilesional left IFG ROI (p<0.001). Post-hoc tests showed a significant increase in this connectivity from T0 to T1 in the Active iTBS group (p<0.001) but not in the Sham group (p=0.42). Crucially, the magnitude of increase in left DLPFC-left IFG connectivity was strongly correlated with the improvement in WAB-R AQ across all participants (r = 0.72, p<0.001). No significant changes were observed in connectivity with right hemisphere homologues.\
\
**3.5 Safety**\
Treatment was well-tolerated. Common AEs were mild transient headache (Active: 14%, Sham: 12%) and scalp discomfort. No seizures or serious adverse events related to TMS occurred.\
\
**4. Discussion**\
\
This study provides Level I evidence that iTBS, a rapid form of excitatory neuromodulation applied to the left DLPFC, can significantly enhance the effects of intensive language therapy in chronic post-stroke aphasia. The +8.4-point treatment effect on the WAB-R AQ far exceeds the minimal clinically important difference (estimated at 5 points) and is larger than effects typically reported for SLT alone or inhibitory rTMS protocols in this population. The gains generalized to confrontation naming, functional communication, and quality of life, and were largely sustained at 3 months.\
\
The neuroimaging results offer a compelling mechanistic insight. The strong correlation between clinical recovery and strengthened functional connectivity between the stimulated DLPFC and the damaged left IFG supports the "network modulation" hypothesis. The DLPFC is not a core language area but a hub for cognitive control. iTBS likely increased the excitability and responsiveness of this hub, enabling it to more effectively support and drive activity in residual language circuits during effortful therapy. This enhanced top-down control may facilitate lexical access, articulation planning, and error monitoring\'97processes targeted by CIAT. The lack of change in interhemispheric connectivity suggests the mechanism is primarily one of *intra*-hemispheric facilitation within the language-dominant hemisphere, rather than interhemispheric rebalancing.\
\
**Clinical Implications:** This protocol (3-min iTBS + intensive therapy) is feasible and time-efficient for clinical settings. It suggests a paradigm shift: rather than solely inhibiting the "bad" hemisphere, targeted facilitation of key supportive nodes in the "good" hemisphere can be highly effective. Patient selection via fMRI connectivity mapping could potentially be used to personalize targets and predict response.\
\
**Limitations:** The study focused on non-fluent aphasia; efficacy in fluent aphasias (e.g., Wernicke's) is unknown. The therapy component was intensive, which may not be universally accessible. The 3-month follow-up is relatively short; longer-term durability beyond 6-12 months requires investigation. The precise cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying the connectivity changes remain to be elucidated.\
\
**5. Conclusion**\
\
iTBS to the left DLPFC is a safe and highly effective adjunct to intensive language therapy, producing substantial and sustained language recovery in chronic post-stroke aphasia. The recovery is mediated by enhanced functional connectivity within the left-hemisphere language network, demonstrating that neuromodulation can harness prefrontal cognitive resources to compensate for focal post-stroke deficits. This approach represents a significant advance in neurorehabilitation, offering new hope for individuals living with chronic aphasia.\
\
**Funding:** This work was supported by the National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders (NIDCD R01DC019153).\
**Disclosures:** Dr. Vance has received speaker honoraria from MagVenture A/S, a TMS equipment manufacturer. Prof. Ito serves as a consultant for a neuroimaging software company. These relationships are unrelated to the current study. All other authors report no competing interests.\
**Data Availability:** De-identified data and analysis code will be made available in a public repository upon publication.}