{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 # **A Phase III, Randomized, Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Trial to Assess the Efficacy and Safety of Algenpantucel-L (HyperAcute\'ae-Pancreas) Immunotherapy as an Adjuvant to Standard-of-Care Therapy in Patients with Resected Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma**\
\
**Protocol ID:** SURVIVE-PDAC | **Version:** 5.1 | **Date:** October 26, 2023\
\
---\
\
## **1.0 ABSTRACT**\
\
**Background:** Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is a lethal malignancy with a 5-year survival rate of approximately 12%. Even after potentially curative resection (R0/R1), recurrence rates exceed 80%, driven by micrometastatic disease resistant to conventional therapies. The immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment (TME) of PDAC is a major barrier to effective treatment. Algenpantucel-L (HyperAcute\'ae-Pancreas) is an allogeneic, whole-cell cancer vaccine composed of two irradiated human PDAC cell lines genetically engineered to express the murine \uc0\u945 (1,3) galactosyltransferase (\u945 -Gal) gene. This modification induces hyperacute rejection via pre-existing anti-\u945 -Gal antibodies, potentially stimulating a systemic, tumor-specific immune response against non-\u945 -Gal tumor-associated antigens (TAAs) through epitope spreading.\
\
**Objective:** To evaluate the efficacy and safety of adjuvant Algenpantucel-L immunotherapy combined with standard-of-care modified FOLFIRINOX (mFOLFIRINOX) chemotherapy and chemoradiation (CRT) in patients with surgically resected PDAC.\
\
**Methods:** This is an international, multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase III trial. We will enroll 722 patients with histologically confirmed PDAC who have undergone R0 or R1 resection within 10 weeks. Patients will be stratified by resection margin status (R0 vs. R1), nodal status (N0 vs. N+), and CA 19-9 level (\uc0\u8804 90 vs. >90 U/mL). They will be randomized 1:1 to: **Arm A (Experimental):** mFOLFIRINOX (12 cycles) + Algenpantucel-L (300 million cells intradermally biweekly for 6 months, then monthly for 6 months) + CRT (50.4 Gy with capecitabine). **Arm B (Control):** mFOLFIRINOX + Placebo vaccine (cell-free vehicle) + CRT on the same schedule. The primary endpoint is **Overall Survival (OS)**. Key secondary endpoints include **Disease-Free Survival (DFS)**, **Metastasis-Free Survival (MFS)**, safety, immunogenicity (anti-tumor antibody and T-cell responses), and quality of life (EORTC QLQ-C30 and PAN26). An extensive correlative science program will profile the peripheral and intratumoral (from baseline tissue) immune microenvironment.\
\
**Hypothesis:** The addition of Algenpantucel-L to adjuvant mFOLFIRINOX and CRT will significantly improve OS by inducing a durable, systemic anti-tumor immune response that eradicates micrometastases and provides long-term immunosurveillance.\
\
**Trial Registration:** ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT[XXXXXXX]; EudraCT: 2023-XXXXXX-XX.\
\
---\
\
## **2.0 INTRODUCTION & RATIONALE**\
\
Pancreatic cancer is projected to become the second leading cause of cancer-related death in the United States within this decade. Surgical resection offers the only chance for cure, yet the majority of patients experience local or distant recurrence within two years. The current adjuvant standard of care for fit patients is 6 months of mFOLFIRINOX, which improves median survival to approximately 54 months, a testament to the aggressive biology of residual disease. This highlights the critical need for novel, complementary therapeutic strategies that target the fundamental drivers of recurrence.\
\
The PDAC microenvironment is notoriously desmoplastic and immunosuppressive, characterized by a paucity of effector T-cells, an abundance of myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs), tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs), and regulatory T-cells (Tregs), and the presence of dense fibrosis that acts as a physical barrier. This "cold" tumor immune phenotype has rendered single-agent checkpoint inhibitors largely ineffective. A successful therapeutic approach must therefore not only deliver direct cytotoxic therapy but also convert this immunosuppressive TME into an immunogenic one, enabling the host immune system to recognize and eliminate residual tumor cells\'97a concept known as *in situ* vaccination followed by systemic epitope spreading.\
\
**Algenpantucel-L: Mechanism of Action:** Algenpantucel-L is a novel, off-the-shelf allogeneic cancer vaccine. It consists of two human PDAC cell lines engineered to express \uc0\u945 (1,3)galactosyltransferase (\u945 -Gal). Humans lack this enzyme and consequently produce abundant natural antibodies (IgG, IgM) against the \u945 -Gal epitope. Upon intradermal injection, these pre-existing anti-\u945 -Gal antibodies bind immediately to the vaccine cells, triggering:\
1.  **Hyperacute Rejection:** Complement-mediated lysis and antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) of the vaccine cells.\
2.  **Antigen Presentation:** Local dendritic cells (DCs) phagocytose the lysed vaccine cells, which are laden with a broad repertoire of shared human PDAC tumor-associated antigens (TAAs).\
3.  **Epitope Spreading:** The activated, antigen-loaded DCs migrate to draining lymph nodes, where they prime na\'efve T-cells not only against \uc0\u945 -Gal (a xenogeneic stimulus) but, crucially, against the co-presented human TAAs. This drives a polyclonal T-cell response against the patient's own residual tumor cells, which do not express \u945 -Gal but share these TAAs.\
\
In essence, the \uc0\u945 -Gal epitope acts as a powerful, universal immunological "danger signal" to break tolerance and initiate a targeted immune response against PDAC.\
\
**Prior Evidence and Rationale for Phase III:** A multi-institutional Phase II trial (NCT01072981) of Algenpantucel-L combined with gemcitabine-based adjuvant therapy in resected PDAC reported promising 1- and 2-year DFS and OS rates, with a favorable safety profile. Subsequent analyses suggested particularly strong benefit in patients with positive margins (R1) or node-positive disease\'97those at highest risk. These findings, combined with strong biologic plausibility, support advancement to a definitive Phase III trial in the context of modern, more effective backbone chemotherapy (mFOLFIRINOX).\
\
**Unmet Need and Study Rationale:** Despite advances with mFOLFIRINOX, the absolute survival benefit remains modest, and the therapy is highly toxic. An effective immunotherapy that leverages the host immune system could provide a less toxic, durable "immunologic memory" against recurrence, potentially transforming the long-term outlook for resected PDAC. This Phase III trial is designed to definitively test whether the addition of this active immunotherapy to maximal cytotoxic therapy can achieve a paradigm shift in outcomes for this devastating disease.\
\
---\
\
## **3.0 METHODS**\
\
**3.1 Study Design:** International, multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, two-arm Phase III superiority trial.\
\
**3.2 Participants:** 722 patients will be enrolled at approximately 120 academic and community oncology centers.\
*   **Inclusion Criteria:**\
    *   Age \uc0\u8805 18 years.\
    *   Histologically confirmed PDAC of the pancreatic head, body, or tail.\
    *   Macroscopically complete (R0/R1) resection (pancreaticoduodenectomy, distal, or total pancreatectomy) within 10 weeks prior to randomization.\
    *   ECOG performance status 0-1.\
    *   Adequate hematologic, hepatic, and renal function.\
    *   Serum CA 19-9 \uc0\u8804  500 U/mL post-resection (for patients with detectable levels).\
*   **Exclusion Criteria:**\
    *   Metastatic disease (M1).\
    *   Prior chemotherapy or radiotherapy for PDAC.\
    *   Active autoimmune disease requiring systemic immunosuppression.\
    *   Known hypersensitivity to any component of the vaccine.\
    *   Concurrent active malignancy (except non-melanoma skin cancer or carcinoma in situ).\
\
**3.3 Randomization and Blinding:** Eligible patients will be centrally randomized 1:1 via an Interactive Web Response System (IWRS). Stratification factors are: **1) Resection Margin** (R0 vs. R1); **2) Nodal Status** (pN0 vs. pN1/N2); **3) Post-operative CA 19-9** (\uc0\u8804 90 vs. >90 U/mL). The Algenpantucel-L and placebo (sterile, cell-free buffer) are provided in identical, single-use vials labeled with a unique kit number. The pharmacy staff preparing the intradermal injections will be unblinded but will have no patient contact or outcome assessment role. Patients, treating oncologists, research staff, and data analysts will remain blinded.\
\
**3.4 Study Interventions and Schedule:**\
All patients receive a **backbone of standard adjuvant therapy**:\
*   **Chemotherapy:** 12 cycles of mFOLFIRINOX (oxaliplatin 85 mg/m\'b2, irinotecan 150 mg/m\'b2, leucovorin 400 mg/m\'b2, 5-FU 2400 mg/m\'b2 over 46h) every 14 days.\
*   **Chemoradiation:** After completion of mFOLFIRINOX (or after 8 cycles if tolerated), patients receive CRT: 50.4 Gy in 28 fractions with concurrent capecitabine (825 mg/m\'b2 orally twice daily on radiation days).\
\
**Experimental Arm (A):** Patients receive **Algenpantucel-L immunotherapy** (150 million cells from each of the two cell lines, total 300 million cells) via intradermal injection (split into 4 sites) every 2 weeks for 6 months (12 doses) concurrently with mFOLFIRINOX, then every 4 weeks for an additional 6 months (6 doses) during/post-CRT and observation (total 18 doses over 12 months).\
\
**Control Arm (B):** Patients receive **Placebo vaccine** (vehicle only) on the identical schedule.\
\
**3.5 Endpoints:**\
*   **Primary Endpoint:** **Overall Survival (OS)**, defined as time from randomization to death from any cause.\
*   **Key Secondary Endpoints:**\
    *   **Disease-Free Survival (DFS):** Time from randomization to disease recurrence (local or distant) or death.\
    *   **Metastasis-Free Survival (MFS):** Time to distant metastatic recurrence or death.\
    *   **Safety and Tolerability:** Incidence and severity of adverse events (CTCAE v5.0), with special attention to immune-related AEs (irAEs) and injection site reactions.\
    *   **Immunogenicity:** Serum levels of anti-\uc0\u945 -Gal antibodies (confirming vaccine take) and de novo induction of anti-PDAC antibody/T-cell responses (via ELISA and IFN-\u947  ELISpot against a panel of PDAC TAAs).\
*   **Exploratory/Correlative Endpoints:**\
    *   **Biomarker Analysis:** Baseline and on-treatment profiling of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) by multi-parameter flow cytometry (T-cell subsets, MDSCs, NK cells) and multiplex cytokine analysis.\
    *   **Tumor Microenvironment Analysis:** Multiplex immunofluorescence (mIF) on baseline resection specimens to quantify CD8+ T-cell infiltration, PD-L1 expression, macrophage polarization (CD68/CD163), and spatial relationships. Correlation with clinical outcomes.\
    *   **Circulating Tumor DNA (ctDNA):** Presence of KRAS/G12D/V mutations in plasma at baseline and serially post-treatment to assess molecular residual disease and correlate with DFS/OS (sub-study).\
    *   **Quality of Life:** EORTC QLQ-C30 and PAN26 questionnaires at baseline, during treatment, and during follow-up.\
\
**3.6 Statistical Analysis:**\
The sample size is based on the primary OS endpoint. With 722 patients (361 per arm), the study has 90% power to detect a hazard ratio (HR) of 0.70 (a 30% reduction in the risk of death) in favor of the experimental arm, using a two-sided log-rank test at \uc0\u945 =0.05. This assumes a median OS of 32 months in the control arm (based on mFOLFIRINOX data) and allows for 5% loss to follow-up over 5 years of accrual and 4 years of follow-up.\
\
**Primary Analysis:** OS will be compared between arms using a **stratified log-rank test**, adjusted for the three stratification factors. The **Kaplan-Meier method** will estimate median OS and survival rates. The **Cox proportional hazards model** will be used to estimate the HR and 95% confidence interval. The primary analysis will be performed on the **Intent-to-Treat (ITT)** population. A pre-planned **interim analysis** for efficacy and futility will be conducted by an Independent Data Monitoring Committee (IDMC) after 50% of expected OS events have occurred, using an O'Brien-Fleming spending function.\
\
**Secondary Endpoints:** DFS and MFS will be analyzed similarly using log-rank tests and Cox models. Safety will be summarized descriptively. Immunogenicity and biomarker data will be analyzed using appropriate parametric/non-parametric tests, with outcomes correlated with clinical response.\
\
---\
\
## **4.0 EXPECTED RESULTS AND DISCUSSION**\
\
**4.1 Anticipated Clinical Outcomes:** We hypothesize that the addition of Algenpantucel-L will lead to a statistically significant and clinically meaningful improvement in OS, with an estimated HR of 0.65-0.75. We anticipate the survival curves will begin to separate 12-18 months post-randomization, reflecting the time needed to induce a robust immunologic response and its delayed impact on micrometastatic disease. We expect a commensurate improvement in DFS and MFS. The therapy is predicted to be well-tolerated, with the primary toxicities being local injection site reactions (erythema, induration, pruritus) and low-grade, transient flu-like symptoms (fever, chills, fatigue). Severe irAEs (e.g., colitis, pneumonitis) are not expected, given the vaccine's localized mechanism.\
\
**4.2 Anticipated Mechanistic and Biomarker Outcomes:** We predict a strong correlation between clinical benefit and immunologic response:\
*   **Immunogenicity:** Patients in the experimental arm will show a boost in anti-\uc0\u945 -Gal titers and, critically, the *de novo* development of antibodies and T-cells against PDAC TAAs (e.g., MUC1, mesothelin, CEACAM6).\
*   **Peripheral Immune Profiling:** Responders will exhibit a shift in the peripheral immune repertoire: decreased immunosuppressive MDSCs, increased peripheral PDAC-specific T-cell clones, and a favorable cytokine profile (e.g., elevated IFN-\uc0\u947 , IL-12).\
*   **Baseline TME:** We hypothesize that patients with a pre-existing but suppressed immune infiltrate ("immune-excluded" phenotype) at baseline, as identified by mIF, will derive the greatest benefit from the vaccine, which may help overcome exclusion.\
\
**4.3 Potential Clinical Impact and Limitations:** A positive result would establish a new standard of care for adjuvant PDAC therapy, integrating active immunotherapy into the treatment paradigm for the first time. It would validate the strategy of using a xenogeneic trigger to overcome tumor-induced immune tolerance. Furthermore, the extensive biomarker program aims to identify predictive signatures to guide patient selection in the future.\
\
**Limitations:**\
1.  **Tumor Heterogeneity:** The use of allogeneic cell lines may not capture the full neoantigen landscape of an individual's tumor, though they express a wide array of shared TAAs.\
2.  **Complex Regimen:** The 12-month vaccine schedule on top of intensive chemo-CRT may impact patient compliance and quality of life, though the Phase II data suggested good tolerability.\
3.  **Blinding Challenges:** Injection site reactions may partially unblind patients and investigators, though the use of a placebo vehicle and systematic assessment can mitigate bias.\
4.  **Evolving Standard of Care:** The trial uses mFOLFIRINOX as its backbone, which is standard, but the field is rapidly evolving (e.g., with the emergence of neoadjuvant approaches).\
\
---\
\
## **5.0 ETHICS, ADMINISTRATION, AND DISSEMINATION**\
\
**Ethical Conduct and Oversight:** The protocol has been approved by a central ethics committee and local IRBs. The study will be conducted per ICH-GCP and the Declaration of Helsinki. An independent **IDMC** will review safety and efficacy data at predefined intervals. All patients will provide written informed consent.\
\
**Data Management and Monitoring:** An electronic data capture system will be used. Source data verification and on-site monitoring will ensure data integrity. The trial sponsor will provide regular safety reports to regulatory authorities.\
\
**Dissemination Policy:** The trial results, whether positive or negative, will be submitted for publication in a high-impact peer-reviewed journal (e.g., *The New England Journal of Medicine*, *The Lancet Oncology*). Key findings will be presented at major oncology conferences (ASCO, ESMO). All patients will receive a summary of the results.\
\
**Timeline:**\
*   **Years 1-2:** Site activation and enrollment.\
*   **Year 3:** Completion of enrollment.\
*   **Years 4-6:** Treatment, follow-up, and interim analysis.\
*   **Year 7:** Final analysis, database lock, and manuscript preparation.\
\
---\
\
## **6.0 CONCLUSION**\
\
The SURVIVE-PDAC trial represents a pivotal, definitive test of a novel immunologic strategy in one of oncology's most challenging diseases. By combining the potent cytotoxic effects of modern adjuvant therapy with a rationally designed immunotherapy intended to stimulate durable, tumor-specific immune memory, this study seeks to fundamentally alter the natural history of resected pancreatic cancer. Success would not only provide a new therapeutic option but also offer profound insights into overcoming the immunosuppressive pancreatic cancer microenvironment, paving the way for future combinatorial immunotherapies.}